SOURCE: Saudi Aramco — Annual Report 2020
TYPE: Annual Report
URL: https://www.aramco.com/-/media/publications/corporate-reports/annual-reports/saudi-aramco-ara-2020-english.pdf
============================================================

[Page 2]
R esilience and agility
Aramco’s exceptional past belongs to its future.
Our people define our success.
Energy has been running in our DNA for generations.
We are proud of what we accomplished during 2020.
Once again, our resilience shone through.
We delivered on our shareholder commitments.
And we continued to deliver an uninterrupted supply
of energy to the world.
Our resilience and agility has built one of the world’s
largest integrated energy and chemicals companies.
And we are part of the global effort toward building
a low carbon economy.
Our horizon has never been clearer.
This Annual Report covers financial and operational aspects of Aramco from January 1, 2020 to December 31, 2020, and
is issued in both Arabic and English. The print version is identical to its PDF counterpart, which is available at aramco.com.
The Arabic version prevails in the event of any discrepancy. The images in this document are representative of the services
provided by Aramco. Some photos may have been taken prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. Wherever possible, sustainable
printing techniques were used.
[Page 3]
01
Contents
1 Aramco 5 Risk
Chairman’s message ...................................06 Risk management........................................92
President and CEO’s foreword ...................08 Risk factors ...................................................94
History ..........................................................10
2020 highlights ............................................12
6 Corporate governance
Aramco’s operations ...................................14
Board of Directors .....................................108
Business model ............................................18
Senior Executives .......................................112
Board structure..........................................116
2 Business overview
Audit Committee report ...........................120
and strategy Risk and HSE Committee report ...............122
Nomination Committee statement ..........123
Business overview .......................................24
Compensation Committee statement ......124
Market overview .........................................28
Compensation and other interests ...........125
Strategy ........................................................29
Governance, risk and compliance ............129
3 Results and performance
7 Additional financial
Key 2020 metrics .........................................36
and legal information
CFO’s message ............................................38
Financial performance ................................40 Additional financial information ..............134
Upstream .....................................................48 Reserves information ................................141
Downstream ................................................58 Regulation of the oil and gas industry
in the Kingdom .........................................142
Corporate .....................................................68
Additional legal information ....................147
Forecasts and forward-looking
4 Environmental, social statements .................................................160
Terms and abbreviations ..........................161
and governance
Glossary .....................................................163
Our approach to sustainability ...................72
Corporate oversight ....................................73
Climate change............................................74
8 Consolidated financial
Minimizing environmental impact .............78
Accelerating human potential ...................82 statements
Growing societal value ...............................86 Independent auditor’s report ...................168
Consolidated statement of income ..........176
Consolidated statement
of comprehensive income ........................177
Consolidated balance sheet .....................178
Consolidated statement
of changes in equity .................................179
Consolidated statement of cash flows .....180
Notes to the consolidated
financial statements ..................................181
The information contained in Sections 1 – 7 of this Annual
Report constitutes our Board of Directors’ report.
[Page 8]
06
Chairman’s message
We remain focused on sustaining the strength,
scale, and efficiency of our operations and
ensuring the continuity of a vital and reliable
energy supply to our customers around the world
Dear Shareholders, In this respect, Aramco took a major step
in 2020 by completing its largest ever
acquisition with the $69.1 billion purchase
In a time of unprecedented global
of a 70% stake in Saudi Basic Industries
economic uncertainty due to the
Corporation (SABIC). As the integration
COVID-19 pandemic, Aramco displayed
continues, SABIC offers a complementary
exceptional resilience by continuing to
presence in terms of geography, projects,
deliver value to our shareholders
and partners, enhancing Aramco’s
throughout 2020.
position in the petrochemical sector.
Despite the volatile and weaker market
2020 saw significant achievements in our
environment, Aramco once again
gas business as we continued to expand
reported solid earnings and cash flows for
our production and processing capacities.
the full year while demonstrating ongoing
In addition, the issuance in November
operational agility. The Company also
of our Senior Unsecured Notes — which
maintained a robust balance sheet
ranged from 3 to 50 years in maturity —
through a highly disciplined approach
was a further reflection of investor
The events of 2020 served to capital allocation. confidence in Aramco’s future story.
to shine a spotlight on In fulfilling previously stated intentions,
Looking ahead, our focus is on more than
we delivered SAR 281 billion ($75 billion)
Aramco’s ability to deliver just generating ongoing value for our
in dividends for the year by declaring
shareholders — it is also on our ability
four quarterly dividends of approximately
on its commitments across to continue creating value for society.
SAR 70 billion ($18.75 billion). As a result,
Against this backdrop, we recognize that
both economic and oil we believe we will pay out the largest
environmental, social and governance
total annual dividend of any publicly
price cycles.” listed company anywhere in the world (ESG) factors are a rising priority for
investors today, including for many
for 2020.
of our shareholders.
Advancing our business
It is worth noting, however, that long
Although markets tend to think in before the term ‘ESG’ was first coined
quarters, we continue to think in decades. in the investment community, many
We remain focused on sustaining the of these considerations were already
strength, scale, and efficiency of our an integral part of Aramco’s approach
operations and ensuring the continuity to business. Indeed, our Company has
of a vital and reliable energy supply to a legacy of safety and corporate
our customers around the world. While responsibility that we continue to build
working to mitigate the immediate upon. For example, in the area of
impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on environmental stewardship, Aramco
our operations, we are not allowing this has long used advanced technologies
short-term disruption to distract us and field methodologies to produce oil,
from our longer-term goals.
[Page 9]
07
Aramco recognizes that environmental, social and governance
(ESG) factors are a rising priority for investors today.
helping us achieve one of the lowest Maintaining strong governance Expressing our appreciation
upstream carbon intensities of any
Our first full year as a publicly listed On behalf of the entire Board, I would
international oil company. We also
company led to a number of historic like to take this opportunity to thank
believe that oil and gas, supported by
milestones in 2020, including our all the men and women of Aramco
technological innovations, will prove to
inaugural post-IPO Ordinary General for their extraordinary contributions
be essential in achieving an orderly global
Assembly Meeting, our first post-IPO during the past year amidst a very
energy transition. And we will continue
earnings call with the investor community, challenging environment. I also want
to seek ways to leverage innovation to
and the first public issuance of our annual to express our gratitude to our
further reduce our emissions.
report and quarterly interim reports. shareholders as well as our customers,
partners, suppliers, contractors, and
We also recognize that for the world to
During 2020, we also welcomed one new the communities where we operate,
achieve net-zero carbon emissions by the
Board member, Mark Weinberger, former for supporting Aramco.
middle of the century and reach the goals
EY Global Chairman and CEO. Mark is
of the Paris Agreement, collective action
now serving as an independent director, The events of 2020 served to shine
is required from all industries and
replacing Andrew Gould, who stepped a spotlight on Aramco’s ability to
governments. It was therefore particularly
down from the Board after more than deliver on its commitments across both
encouraging that the G20 leaders
six years of service. We thank Andrew economic and oil price cycles. Going
endorsed the Kingdom’s strategy to
for his many contributions, during what forward, we will continue to leverage
combat climate change globally through
was a historic period for our Company. all of our considerable strengths to
the development of a circular carbon
create value for you, our shareholders,
economy. Aramco will play a significant
Beyond the guidance provided by the and for society as a whole.
role in advancing this holistic and
Board, Aramco’s success would not be
pragmatic approach, which focuses on a
possible without the ongoing support of
4R framework of reducing, reusing, and
The Custodian of The Two Holy Mosques H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan
recycling carbon products, as well as
King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud, and Chairman of the Board of Directors
removing harmful emissions from the air.
His Royal Highness Prince Mohammed
bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud,
During 2020, we also continued to
Crown Prince, Deputy Prime Minister
expand on the name recognition and
and Minister of Defense of the Kingdom
brand equity of Aramco through major
of Saudi Arabia. We would also like to
sports partnerships. This included signing
extend our appreciation to the Ministry of
a long-term global sponsorship with
Energy of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
Formula 1®, connecting the Company
for their continuous support.
with a worldwide audience of hundreds
of millions of racing fans.
ocmarA
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 10]
08
President and
CEO’s foreword
We are proud to be making a meaningful
difference by supplying vital energy to the world
today, while working at the speed of science in
developing cleaner energy solutions for tomorrow
Dear Shareholders, savings in both our capital and
operational spend. We retain additional
flexibility to further adjust expenditures.
In 2020, no industry or company was
The issuance of our $8 billion of Senior
immune to the impacts of the COVID-19
Unsecured Notes in the fourth quarter
pandemic — including ours.
saw exceptionally strong investor interest
globally, attracting more than 150 new
Aramco, for its part, demonstrated
investors and achieving record levels
considerable financial and widespread
of demand for a new 50-year tranche —
operational agility during the most
all of which we believe reflects confidence
volatile year the world has seen in
in our Company’s resilience. Indeed, we
generations. With the majority of our
expect long-term energy demand to
employees working in field locations, we
increase, with oil and gas remaining an
proactively put in place comprehensive
important part of the global energy mix.
protective measures to safeguard their
safety and well-being, while maintaining
Demonstrating operational
our operational integrity and reliability.
flexibility
Throughout its 87-year
With COVID-19 making daily work and During what can only be described as
history, our Company has life more complex, we benefited from an exceptional year for the entire world,
having previously adopted advanced our upstream business demonstrated its
overcome many challenges
technology and building a robust IT unique flexibility by rapidly adjusting
and we remain confident infrastructure — all of which allowed production levels as required. In April,
us to adjust quickly and enabled our we achieved the highest single day crude
we will emerge on the other employees who could work remotely, oil production in our history: 12.1 mmbpd.
to do so. In August, we achieved another
side of this pandemic in
milestone, producing a single day record
As part of the battle against COVID-19, of 10.7 bscfd of natural gas from our
a position of strength.”
we provided support for Saudi Arabia’s conventional and unconventional fields.
healthcare sector, including donating Meanwhile, our Fadhili Gas Plant reached
ventilators and other medical equipment its design processing capacity of 2.5 bscfd
and supplies. Our affiliates in Asia, and we also resumed operations in the
Europe, and North America also engaged offshore partitioned territory between
in similar initiatives. the Kingdom and the State of Kuwait.
Maintaining financial resilience We operate one of the world’s largest
refining businesses, with our downstream
Despite the economic fallout of the
operations consuming 39% of our crude
pandemic, we declared a dividend
oil production in 2020. Our ambition to
of SAR 281 billion ($75 billion) to our
expand further downstream also made
shareholders for the year.
a significant leap forward with Aramco’s
acquisition of a majority stake in SABIC.
Throughout 2020, we demonstrated the
The completion of this historic transaction
agility of our financial framework through
in June transformed our Company into a
our spending and efficiency programs,
major global petrochemicals player, with
which resulted in billions of dollars of
operations in more than 50 countries.
[Page 11]
09
Despite COVID-19 bringing the world
to a standstill, Aramco kept going.
Creating additional value The Company already has one of the As the result of our continued investment
lowest upstream carbon footprints in in innovation, we were granted a
In 2020, we added to the Kingdom’s oil
the industry, achieving an upstream company record of 683 U.S. patents in
and gas reserves with the discovery of
carbon intensity of 10.5 kg of CO per 2020, an accomplishment that places
seven new fields and one new reservoir. 2
barrel of oil equivalent produced in 2020. us among the leaders in our industry.
It should be noted that our low upstream We believe that technology and
During the year, we also made
carbon intensity levels are not just a innovation are key to delivering more
refinements to our business that further
geological perk, but also the result of our energy more efficiently in the future.
support our vision. This included the
decades-long reservoir management and We are pleased that our progress in
establishment of a new corporate
production approach both below and this area was once again acknowledged
development unit to further optimize our
above the ground that includes leveraging last year, with the Khurais oil facility
portfolio and existing assets, while also
advanced technologies and minimizing becoming the second Aramco plant
identifying new opportunities for growth
emissions and flaring. to be recognized by the World
through markets and technologies.
Economic Forum for the adoption
Although we believe our low carbon of cutting-edge technologies.
Operationally, our iktva program to
energy production will provide us with
develop the local supply network and
lower our procurement costs continued a competitive edge, we recognize that Emerging even stronger
we must do much more to reduce our
to prove beneficial, with the pandemic Throughout its 87-year history, our
emissions. This includes investing in
reinforcing the importance of having Company has overcome many challenges
carbon capture, utilization, and storage
a robust supply chain. and we remain confident we will emerge
technologies, which — as the name
on the other side of this pandemic in
suggests — prevent more emissions
In November, we announced new a position of strength. We believe
entering the atmosphere. We are also
agreements with companies through Aramco’s unique scale combined with
working on technologies that can turn
our Industrial Investment Program, our low-cost structure and low upstream
CO into useful products or capture
which is designed to further support 2 carbon intensity is unparalleled.
CO in cement. And we are pursuing
expansion of the local business 2
non-combustible alternative uses for
ecosystem. And in December, we also I remain very proud of all my colleagues
hydrocarbons, including nonmetallic
signed agreements with Google and who ensured reliable, safe, and normal
construction materials and direct
Cognite that will help accelerate digital operations even in these most abnormal
crude to chemicals technologies.
development within the Kingdom. of times. Collectively, we are proud to
be making a meaningful difference by
Another promising area is the conversion
Delivering more energy supplying vital energy to the world today,
of hydrocarbons to hydrogen and then
with lower emissions while working at the speed of science
to ammonia, while capturing the CO
2 in developing cleaner energy solutions
While COVID-19 was certainly the biggest created during the process. In August,
for tomorrow.
test of the past year, reducing emissions we exported the world’s first shipment
to address climate change remains the of high-grade blue ammonia to Japan
biggest single challenge of this century. for use in zero carbon power generation,
Amin H. Nasser
Given the fact that oil and gas will be reinforcing another potential role that
President and Chief Executive Officer
required as sources of energy for many hydrocarbons could play in a circular
decades to come, all roads to net zero carbon economy.
run through our industry.
ocmarA
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 12]
10
History
Our history dates back more than
85 years, when a small group of intrepid
adventurers set out to explore the
deserts of Saudi Arabia
1933-1944 1945-1965 1966-1988
The birth of Arabian oil Expansion Making a name
for ourselves
1933 Oil concession agreement signed 1948 Standard Oil Company of New 1971 Oil production averages
with Standard Oil of California Jersey, later Exxon, purchases 30% 4.5 mmbpd
which creates the California of Aramco, and Socony-Vacuum
Arabian Standard Oil Company Oil Company, later Mobil, 1973 The Saudi Government acquires an
(CASOC) to manage the concession purchases 10% to help provide initial 25% participating interest in
market outlets the concession, which increases to
1938 Oil discovered at Dammam 60% the following year
Well No. 7 1949 Oil production hits 500 mbpd
1975 Decision made to build the Master
1939 Oil exports begin 1952 Aramco headquarters moves Gas System, enabling one of the
from New York City to Dhahran world's largest gas markets and
1944 CASOC renamed the Arabian transforming the national energy
American Oil Company (Aramco) 1958 Oil production exceeds mix toward clean fuel
1 mmbpd
1976 Aramco becomes the world’s
1965 Oil production exceeds leading oil producer in terms of
2 mmbpd volume produced in a single year
1980 Saudi Government increases its
participation interest in Aramco’s
crude oil concession rights,
production and facilities to 100%
1988 Saudi Aramco (Aramco) officially
established
[Page 13]
11
1989-2014 2015-2019 2020
A global company Transformation Resilience
1989 First international downstream 2017 Aramco acquires full ownership 2020 Aramco achieves a historic highest
joint venture, in U.S. of Motiva single day crude oil production
of 12.1 mmbpd and highest single
1991 First downstream venture in Asia, 2018 Aramco becomes a joint day natural gas production of
in South Korea stock company 10.7 bscfd
1993 Aramco assumes the assets and Aramco commences commercial Aramco completes its historic
operations of Saudi Arabian production of unconventional acquisition of a 70% stake in SABIC
Marketing and Refining Company, resources in North Arabia
a Government-owned in-Kingdom Aramco issues $8.0 billion of Senior
refining and international product Aramco acquires full ownership Unsecured Notes, listed on the
marketing organization of ARLANXEO London Stock Exchange
2009 Petro Rabigh, Aramco’s first 2019 Aramco becomes a public company
petrochemical plant, begins with shares listed on Tadawul
production
Aramco issues $12.0 billion
2011 Sadara Chemical Company formed of Senior Unsecured Notes, listed
on the London Stock Exchange
2014 SATORP and YASREF refineries
come online
ocmarA
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 14]
12
2020
January M arch
highlights
Record IPO F1 sponsorship
During what can only be Aramco reports the exercise of Aramco agrees a long-term global
overallotment of shares option, sponsorship with Formula 1®
described as an exceptional
raising the size of its initial public
year for the entire world, offering (IPO) to a record $29.4 billion Dedicated COVID-19
team established
we have nevertheless IPTC conference hosted
To combat COVID-19, Aramco establishes
made significant strides Aramco hosts the International Petroleum a dedicated team to ensure the safety
Technology Conference (IPTC), a and well-being of the company’s
toward achieving our significant international oil and gas employees, contractors and communities,
strategic objectives conference, held for the first time and to maintain business continuity
in Saudi Arabia
Corporate reporting
Aramco issues its first Annual Report
as a publicly listed company
F ebruary April
Gas field development approved Historic crude production
Aramco receives regulatory approval Aramco achieves a historic highest single
for the development of the Jafurah day crude oil production of 12.1 mmbpd
unconventional gas field, the largest on April 2
non-associated gas field in the Kingdom
to date
Operations resume
Aramco, through its wholly owned
subsidiary Aramco Gulf Operations
Company Ltd. (AGOC), resumes
operations at Al-Khafji Joint
Operations (KJO)
iCCUS conference sponsored
Aramco sponsors the first International
Carbon Capture, Utilization and Storage
(iCCUS) conference, discussing solutions
for reducing greenhouse gas emissions
from the energy sector
[Page 15]
13
M ay August S eptember
Aramco AGM Historic natural gas production WEF recognition at Khurais
Aramco holds its first annual general achieved The World Economic Forum (WEF)
assembly meeting as a publicly Aramco achieves a historic highest single recognizes Aramco’s Khurais oil facility
listed company day natural gas production of 10.7 bscfd as a leader in the adoption and
on August 6, from both conventional and integration of cutting-edge technologies
unconventional fields of the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR)
Blue ammonia
Aramco and the Institute of Energy
Economics, Japan (IEEJ), in partnership
with SABIC, completes the world’s first
shipment of high-grade blue ammonia
June N ovember
Listing of Senior Unsecured Notes
SABIC acquisition Aramco issues $8.0 billion of Senior
Unsecured Notes, listed on the London
Aramco completes its historic
Stock Exchange
$69.1 billion acquisition of
a 70% stake in SABIC,
transforming Aramco into
one of the major global
petrochemicals players
Fadhili Gas Plant capacity
The Fadhili Gas Plant reaches its
design processing capacity of 2.5 bscfd
after successfully completing its
commissioning activities
ocmarA
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 18]
16
Who we are
Aramco’s vision is to be the world’s
preeminent integrated energy
and chemicals company, operating in
a safe, sustainable and reliable manner
Our values
Excellence Integrity
At Aramco, excellence translates into The integrity of business at Aramco
all aspects of our workplace. It is our is based on the ethical standards of our
personal and group commitment employees in our everyday operations.
to doing what we do well. We drive Integrity is a precious asset, it is our
for best results and are agile in reputation. The foundation of corporate
addressing new challenges. integrity is personal integrity.
Safety Accountability
Safety is an integral part of Aramco’s Accountability means all employees
culture. We are committed to providing at Aramco take responsibility for their
a safe and respectful working actions in meeting corporate objectives.
environment for all with the appropriate Accountability for achieving Aramco’s
safety procedures and policies in place overarching business objectives starts
on-site and within the community. with the goals and objectives outlined
by the President and CEO for its business
Citizenship lines, and pervades through Aramco.
No matter where in the world we are
conducting business, it is important to
be known as a good corporate citizen
and to be a positive influence within
communities. As a global company in
Saudi Arabia, we take this role seriously.
See more at www.aramco.com/en/who-we-are/our-corporate-governance/living-our-values
[Page 20]
18
Business model
How Aramco adds value across the production lifecycle
Explore and produce Refine and manufacture
Aramco manages the Kingdom’s Maximum Sustainable Capacity (MSC) Aramco operates a strategically
unique hydrocarbon reserves base, (mmbpd) integrated global downstream business.
optimizing production and Our downstream activities consist
12.0
maximizing long-term value. primarily of refining and petrochemical
manufacturing. Other activities include
Total hydrocarbon reserves Total crude oil and condensate reserves
base oils, lubricants and power
(billion boe) (billion barrels) generation.
255.2 198.8
Total hydrocarbon production Total crude oil production1
(mmboed) (mmbpd)
12.4 9.2
UnderpUinndneerdp binyn oeudr b eyn oviurro nemnveirnotnaml, ental,
Upstream carbon intensity Flaring intensity3
(kg of CO2e/boe) (scf/boe)
10.5 5.95
[Page 21]
19
Distribute
Gross refining capacity Aramco delivers upstream production Reliability2
(mmbpd) to a high-quality external customer (%)
base and a dedicated downstream
6.4 99.9
system. Aramco also provides
high-value products to the Kingdom
Net chemicals production capacity Crude exports
and internationally in large and
(million tonnes per year) high-growth markets, through (mmbpd)
53.1 its supply and trading, distribution 6.7
and retail operations.
Total traded volumes
(mmbpd)
4.7
social and governance framework
1. Includes AGOC’s oil production, blended condensate and excludes the
Lost Time Injury Rate2 (LTI) Granted U.S. patents4 Kingdom of Bahrain’s entitlement to volumes produced from the Abu
Sa’fah field.
(per 200,000 man-hours) 2. The Company.
3. Wholly owned in-Kingdom assets, SASREF, Motiva and ARLANXEO.
0.011 683 4. The Company and its subsidiaries ARLANXEO and Motiva.
ocmarA
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 22]
20
How we create value
Aramco’s conventional proved reserves and
crude oil production are unrivalled. Through
the utilization of a skilled workforce operating
in a safe and reliable manner and leveraging
technology, Aramco sustains its low-cost and
low carbon intensity crude oil production
Manifa, Arabian Gulf
What we do
Upstream Downstream
Aramco is the world’s largest producer of crude Aramco has a large and strategically integrated
oil and condensate. We manage the Kingdom’s global downstream business. Our Downstream
unique reserves and resource base to optimize segment activities consist primarily of refining
production and maximize long-term value. and petrochemical manufacturing, supply and
trading, distribution and power generation.
See page 48 for more details. See page 58 for more details.
The strategic integration of our Upstream and
Upstream and Downstream
Downstream segments enables us to secure crude oil
integration demand by selling to a dedicated system of domestic
and international wholly owned and affiliated refineries.
[Page 26]
24
Business
overview
Aramco is one of the world’s largest
integrated energy and chemicals companies
Overview
Aramco’s upstream Aramco is one of the world’s largest
integrated energy and chemicals
operations are primarily companies. Aramco's primary operating
segments are Upstream and Downstream,
based in Saudi Arabia,
which are supported by corporate
while the downstream activities. Aramco’s upstream operations
are primarily based in Saudi Arabia,
business is global while the downstream business is global.
In 2020, Aramco‘s average hydrocarbon
production was 12.4 mmboed, including
9.2 mmbpd of crude oil (including
blended condensate and AGOC’s
production in the partitioned territory
and its adjoining offshore areas in
accordance with the agreements
12.4
between the Kingdom and the State of
mmboed Kuwait but excluding the Kingdom of
Bahrain’s share of volumes produced
from the Abu Sa’fah field). As at
Average hydrocarbon production was December 31, 2020, based on the initial
12.4 mmboed, including 9.2 mmbpd 40-year period and 20-year extension
of crude oil of the Concession, Aramco’s reserves
stood at 255.2 billion boe, including
198.8 billion barrels of crude oil and
condensate, 25.2 billion barrels of NGL
and 191.6 tscf of natural gas. In addition,
as at December 31, 2020, Aramco had
a gross refining capacity of 6.4 mmbpd
and net chemicals production capacity
of 53.1 million tonnes per year.
[Page 28]
26
Upstream Aramco is the exclusive supplier of
natural gas in the Kingdom and its gas
The Upstream segment’s activities
portfolio is rich in liquids, demonstrated
consist of exploring for, developing
by the production of 1.0 mmbpd of
and producing crude oil, condensate,
NGL and 0.2 mmbpd of unblended
natural gas and NGL. Aramco manages
condensate in 2020. Aramco owns and
the Kingdom’s unique reserves and
operates the Master Gas System (MGS),
resources base to optimize production
which is an extensive network of
and maximize long-term value pursuant
pipelines that connects its key gas
to the Hydrocarbons Law, which
production and processing sites
mandates that Aramco’s hydrocarbon
throughout the Kingdom. Aramco
operations promote long-term
seeks to further expand its gas reserves
productivity of the Kingdom’s reservoirs
through new field discoveries, new
and support the prudent stewardship
reservoir additions in existing fields and
of its hydrocarbon resources.
delineation and reassessment of existing
reservoirs and fields. In 2020, Aramco
Aramco’s principal fields are located
received approval for the development
in close proximity to each other within
of the Jafurah unconventional gas field
the Central and Eastern Provinces of the
in the Eastern Province.
Kingdom. An extensive pipeline network
connects Aramco’s fields, processing
In support of Aramco’s continuous focus
plants and other facilities. The crude oil,
on the full replacement of its oil and gas
condensate, natural gas and NGL
reserves, Aramco’s exploration activities
produced travel through Aramco’s
led to the discovery of seven new fields
pipelines to multiple facilities for
and one new reservoir in 2020.
processing into refined and petrochemical
products or to domestic customers or
export terminals. In particular, Aramco’s
See page 48 for further information.
East-West pipeline is critical in linking oil
production facilities in the Eastern
Province with Yanbu’ on the West Coast, Downstream
and providing flexibility to export from Aramco has a large, strategically
the East and West coasts of the Kingdom. integrated global downstream business.
The Downstream segment’s activities
The strategic integration of The Government determines the consist primarily of refining and
Kingdom’s maximum level of crude oil petrochemical manufacturing, supply
Aramco’s Upstream and production in the exercise of its sovereign and trading, distribution and power
prerogative and requires Aramco to
generation. The Downstream segment’s
Downstream segments maintain maximum sustainable capacity
other business activities include base oils,
(MSC). As at December 31, 2020,
provides an opportunity for lubricants and retail operations.
Aramco’s MSC was maintained at
Aramco to secure crude oil 12.0 mmbpd of crude oil. On March 11, The strategic integration of Aramco’s
2020, the Government mandated Aramco Upstream and Downstream segments
demand and capture to increase its MSC to 13.0 mmbpd. provides an opportunity for Aramco
incremental value from the Aramco is proceeding with detailed to secure crude oil demand and capture
engineering and implementing the incremental value from the oil supply
oil supply chain Government’s directive to increase MSC. chain by selling to its dedicated system
The spare capacity afforded by of domestic and international wholly
maintaining MSC enables Aramco to owned and affiliated refineries and
rapidly increase its crude oil production petrochemical plants. This crude
above planned levels in response to placement provides significant benefits
changes in global crude oil supply and to Aramco’s downstream operations,
demand. Aramco also uses this spare including a secure and reliable supply
capacity as an alternative supply option of high-quality crude oil, which helps
in case of unplanned production outages to ensure a secure and reliable supply
at any field and to maintain its production of refined and petrochemical products
levels during routine field maintenance. to their downstream customers.
[Page 29]
27
Aramco’s Downstream business is the Corporate
largest customer for the Upstream
Aramco’s corporate activities primarily
segment’s crude oil production,
support its Upstream and Downstream
consuming 39% of its crude oil production
segments, as well as the overall business.
in 2020. Aramco’s upstream business The corporate activities include technical
produces all the crude oil supplied to and
services essential to the success of
processed by Aramco’s wholly owned
Aramco’s core business, as well as
and affiliated refineries in the Kingdom
human resources, finance, legal,
and provides the majority of crude oil
corporate affairs and IT.
used by its international refineries.
During the year, Aramco established
Aramco’s refining operations in the Aramco’s Downstream
an integrated corporate development
Kingdom, including its domestic affiliates
organization to create value, assess business is the largest and local distribution system, provide
and divest certain existing assets and
Aramco unique access to the large secure greater access to growth markets customer for the Upstream
domestic marketplace to which it is the
and technologies through portfolio
sole supplier. In addition to its domestic segment’s crude oil
optimization and strategic alignment.
focus, Aramco is focusing its downstream
production, consuming
investments in areas of high growth,
Aramco’s commitment to good
including China, India and Southeast governance and leadership is at 39% of its crude oil
Asia, material demand centers such as
the core of how it operates, which
the United States, and countries that production in 2020
includes sustainability and research
rely on importing crude oil, such as
and development (Section 4: ESG),
Japan and South Korea.
risk management (Section 5: Risk)
and corporate governance
Aramco also has an integrated
(Section 6: Corporate governance).
petrochemicals business within its
Downstream segment, which enables
it to capture incremental margin in See page 68 for further information.
the hydrocarbon value chain. Aramco’s
chemicals business continues to grow
through capacity expansions in the
Kingdom, increasing ownership positions
in affiliates and new investments,
including its acquisition of a 70% stake
in SABIC from the PIF, the sovereign
wealth fund of Saudi Arabia, in June
2020. Aramco’s investment in SABIC
makes it a major global producer of
petrochemicals and expands its
capabilities in procurement,
manufacturing, marketing, and sales.
With the SABIC acquisition, Aramco’s
chemicals business operates in over
50 countries and produces a range
of chemical products.
Aramco’s Downstream segment includes
its crude oil and product sales, distribution
and trading operations. These operations
support Aramco’s upstream and
downstream activities by enabling it to
optimize crude oil sales and product
placement through its significant
infrastructure network of pipelines and
terminals and access to shipping and
logistics resources.
See page 58 for further information.
ygetarts
dna
weivrevo
ssenisuB
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 30]
28
Market overview
The global economy in 2020 was severely
impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic
Global Domestic energy demand, essentially
unchanged since 2015, is estimated to
The global economy in 2020 was severely
have dropped by 3.1% in 2020, the
impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and
highest year-on-year decline in almost
its related lockdowns with subsequent
three decades. The drop in demand was
recoveries being tamed by recurring
caused by lockdowns and other
outbreaks of the virus. Accordingly, the
containment measures enacted by the
global economy contracted by 3.9% in
Government in the wake of the COVID-19
2020, compared to 2.6% growth in 2019,
pandemic. Transportation fuel demand
per IHS Markit estimates.
was impacted the most, falling by an
estimated 15% during 2020, with jet fuel
The IHS Markit Global Crude Oil Markets
and gasoline hit the hardest reflecting
Outlook estimates global oil demand
international travel restrictions, curfews,
decreased by 10.3 mmbpd in 2020,
and lockdowns.
dropping to 91.0 mmbpd with global
42 oil supply estimated to have averaged
The sharpest downturn in the energy
93.9 mmbpd in 2020. Therefore, the
$ /bbl sector was witnessed in April when
market has been oversupplied for
overall demand for transportation fuels
the year.
plunged by 46% year-on-year, with
Brent crude oil price averaged $42/bbl
aviation fuels down by 86% and gasoline
in 2020, approximately 34% lower than Brent crude oil price averaged $42/bbl
down by over 60%. Energy demand in the
the average of $64/bbl in 2019 in 2020, approximately 34% lower than
power generation and water desalination
the average of $64/bbl in 2019.
sector on the other hand, dropped by a
much more modest 0.7% to 1.9 mmboed
Domestic
in 2020. In contrast, and despite supply-
According to economic data released chain disruptions globally, industrial
by the General Authority for Statistics energy demand increased slightly. In line
(GSTAT) the Kingdom’s GDP is estimated with the recent trend, the share of sales
to have contracted by 4.1% in 2020, gas, ethane, and natural gas liquids in the
vis-à-vis the previous year. This represents Kingdom’s primary energy mix continued
a significant reduction when compared growing, reaching 55% in 2020, up from
to the 0.3% growth registered in 2019. 53% in 2019.
It is expected that all institutional sectors
of the Saudi economy (oil and non-oil,
consisting of the private and government See Section 3: Results and performance for key
factors affecting Aramco’s financial results.
sectors) registered negative growth
rates in 2020.
[Page 31]
29
Strategy
Aramco’s strategy aims to reinforce its
competitive positions across its upstream
and downstream operations
Aramco’s vision is to be the
world’s preeminent integrated Maintain its position as the world’s largest crude oil producer
energy and chemicals company, 1 by production volume and one of the lowest cost producers,
operating in a safe, sustainable while providing reliable, low carbon intensity crude oil supply
and reliable manner. to customers
Aramco strives to provide its
shareholders with resilient
value creation through crude oil See page 30 for more detail.
price cycles by maintaining its
preeminence in oil and gas
production, capturing additional
value across the hydrocarbon
Capture value from Expand gas activities
value chain and profitably 2 3
further strategic
growing its portfolio.
integration and
diversification
Aramco’s strategy aims to
of its operations
reinforce its competitive
positions across its upstream
and downstream operations. See page 31 for more detail. See page 31 for more detail.
Expand global Efficiently allocate
4 5
recognition of capital and maintain
Aramco’s brands a prudent and flexible
balance sheet
See page 32 for more detail. See page 32 for more detail.
Deliver sustainable Operate sustainably
6 7
dividends through by leveraging
crude oil price cycles technology and
innovation
See page 33 for more detail. See page 33 for more detail.
ygetarts
dna
weivrevo
ssenisuB
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 32]
30
Strategy
1
Maintain its position as the world’s largest crude oil
producer by production volume and one of the lowest
cost producers, while providing reliable, low carbon
intensity crude oil supply to customers
Aramco intends to maintain its position in the exercise of its sovereign prerogative
as the world’s largest crude oil company and requires Aramco to maintain MSC
by production volume. Its reserves, in excess of its then current production
operational capabilities and spare in accordance with the Hydrocarbons
capacity allow it to increase production Law. The spare capacity afforded by
in response to demand. Aramco maintaining MSC provides operational
maintains its desired level of crude oil flexibility to respond rapidly to changes
production by balancing production in global crude oil supply and demand.
between maturing areas and newer Though Aramco has a robust field
production sources, tapping into new maintenance philosophy that emphasizes
reservoirs when required to optimize the reliability of its upstream operations,
the depletion rate of its fields. It also MSC also provides an alternative supply
maintains its low-cost position due option in the event of unplanned
to the unique nature of the Kingdom’s production outages at any field.
geological formations, favorable
onshore and shallow water offshore Moreover, Aramco utilizes term
environments in which Aramco’s agreements for selling crude oil to major
reservoirs are located, synergies consumers globally. These agreements
available from Aramco’s use of its large provide supply predictability to customers
infrastructure and logistics networks, by standardizing price and delivery
its low depletion rate operational model terms to major regional demand centers.
Aramco’s vision is to be the
and its scaled application of technology. Aramco continues to invest in and develop
world’s preeminent a sophisticated and extensive crude oil
In addition, Aramco seeks to maintain distribution and dispatch system, which
integrated energy and its position as one of the world’s most maintains Aramco’s supply reliability.
reliable crude oil suppliers. The
chemicals company,
Government determines the Kingdom’s Moreover, Aramco seeks to preserve the
maximum level of crude oil production low lifting carbon intensity of its crude
operating in a safe,
oil production, which places it among
sustainable and reliable the world’s least carbon intense
producing sources of crude oil.
manner
[Page 33]
31
2 3
Capture value from Expand gas activities
further strategic integration
and diversification of its
operations
Aramco intends to continue the Aramco plans to expand its gas business
strategic integration of its upstream and to meet the large and growing domestic
downstream businesses to facilitate the demand for low-cost cleaner energy by
placement of Aramco’s crude oil in larger increasing production and investing in
offtake volumes through a captive system additional infrastructure. This demand
of domestic and international wholly is driven by power generation, water
owned and affiliated refineries, allowing desalination, petrochemical production,
it to capture additional value across the and other industrial consumption in the
hydrocarbon chain, expand its sources Kingdom. Aramco’s gas production also
of earnings and provide resilience to oil yields NGL (including ethane) and
price volatility. For example, Aramco’s condensate, which supplement crude oil
acquisition of a 70% equity interest production and provide feedstock to the
in SABIC on June 16, 2020, supports refining and petrochemical industries.
the significant expansion of Aramco’s Furthermore, Aramco seeks over time to
downstream activities, particularly develop an integrated global gas portfolio
in its chemicals business, and provides and continues to evaluate investment and
additional opportunities for Aramco joint venture opportunities outside the
to supply mixed feedstock of crude oil, Kingdom in natural gas and LNG projects.
refinery products and gas to manufacture
petrochemicals products.
In addition, the integration of Aramco’s
Upstream and Downstream segments
provides a unique opportunity for Aramco
to secure crude oil demand by selling
to refineries designed specifically to
economically process Arabian crude oil.
Furthermore, Aramco intends to enhance
its domestic and global marketing
businesses to support the position of its
upstream business in key, high-growth
geographies, including China, India and
Southeast Asia, which are integral to
Aramco’s existing business and future
expansion strategy. Moreover, Aramco
intends to maintain its presence in key
large countries, such as the United States,
and in countries that rely on importing
crude oil, such as Japan and South Korea.
WWaassiitt GGaass PPllaanntt,, EEaasstteerrnn PPrroovviinnccee
ygetarts
dna
weivrevo
ssenisuB
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 34]
32
4 5
Expand global recognition Efficiently allocate capital
of Aramco’s brands and maintain a prudent
and flexible balance sheet
Aramco intends to expand global Aramco has a comprehensive and
recognition of its brands. One aspect disciplined internal approval process
Aramco intends to expand
of this strategy is to introduce its brands for capital expenditures, new projects
global recognition of its to existing domestic and international and debt issuance. It analyzes future
marketing businesses, including at retail projects based on strategic, operational,
brands in the energy sector service stations, and further develop its commercial, and financial targets.
petrochemicals and base oil brands. In Aramco’s unique reserves and resources
addition, as new marketing activities are base, operational flexibility, field
added to its business portfolio, Aramco management practices and strong cash
intends to use its own brands and thereby flow generation serve as a foundation
build recognition of its position as for its low gearing and flexibility to
a leader in the global energy sector. allocate capital. Moreover, in August
For example, in March 2020, Aramco 2020, Aramco established an integrated
announced a long-term global corporate development organization to
partnership with Formula 1®. create value, assess and divest of certain
existing assets and secure greater access
to growth markets and technologies
through portfolio optimization and
strategic alignment. Aramco operates
within a conservative financial framework
and strives to maintain its gearing ratio
to within its long-term targeted range
of 5% to 15%.
However, following the acquisition of
the PIF’s 70% equity interest in SABIC,
Aramco’s gearing ratio as at December 31,
2020 was 23.0%, as compared to (0.2)%
as at December 31, 2019. Gearing is a
non-IFRS financial measure. For a
definition of gearing and a reconciliation
to the nearest financial measure
calculated in accordance with IFRS, see
Section 3: Results and performance.
Ju'aymah, Eastern Province
[Page 35]
33
6 7
Deliver sustainable Operate sustainably by
dividends through leveraging technology
crude oil price cycles and innovation
Aramco intends to deliver sustainable Aramco’s climate change strategy aims
dividends to its shareholders through to grow its business sustainably by
crude oil price cycles. After consideration leveraging technology and innovation
of a number of factors, the Board of to lower its climate impact. Aramco
Directors, at its discretion, declared intends to maintain its position as a leader
aggregate ordinary cash dividends of in Scope 1 and Scope 2 upstream carbon
$75.0 billion with respect to calendar intensity, with one of the lowest carbon
year 2020. In addition, Royal Order No. footprints per unit of hydrocarbons
A/42, dated 26/1/1441H (corresponding produced. It is also pursuing a wide
to September 25, 2019) provides that, range of initiatives to further lower its
to the extent that the Board of Directors carbon intensity. For example, Aramco’s
determines that the amount of any natural gas program is increasing the
quarterly cash dividend declared percentage of gas used to meet the
with respect to calendar years 2020 Kingdom’s energy needs. Aramco is also
through 2024 would have been less a founding member of the Oil and Gas
than $0.09375 per share (based on Climate Initiative (OGCI) and uses this
200,000,000,000 shares outstanding) platform for sharing best practices and
but for the Government forgoing its devising common solutions to climate
rights to such dividend, the Government change with other major companies.
will forgo its right to receive the portion
of cash dividends on its shares equal In January 2020, Aramco joined the
Aramco’s climate change
to the amount necessary to enable Hydrogen Council as a steering member.
Aramco to first pay the minimum The Hydrogen Council is a CEO-led strategy aims to grow
quarterly cash dividend amount described organization that promotes collaboration
above to holders of shares other than between governments, industry and its business sustainably
the Government. The remaining amount investors to provide guidance on
by leveraging technology
of the declared dividend as determined accelerating the deployment of
by the Board of Directors in its discretion hydrogen solutions globally. Moreover, and innovation to lower
will be paid to the Government. in September 2020, Aramco and the
Institute of Energy Economics, Japan its climate impact
(IEEJ), in partnership with SABIC,
Refer to Section 6: Corporate governance successfully completed the world’s first
for further details.
shipment of high-grade blue ammonia,
which involved the conversion of
hydrocarbons to hydrogen and then
to ammonia, as well as the capture of
associated carbon dioxide emissions.
Forty tonnes were shipped from Saudi
Arabia to Japan for use to generate
power with a zero-carbon footprint.
ygetarts
dna
weivrevo
ssenisuB
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 38]
36
KKeeyy 22002200 mmeettrriiccss
SShhaayybbaahh ffaacciilliittyy
F inancial highlights
Net income EBIT* Free cash flow* Net cash provided by
(billion) (billion) (billion) operating activities
(billion)
184 380 184 285
SAR SAR SAR SAR
$49 $101 $49 $76
(2019: $88) (2019: $178) (2019: $78) (2019: $111)
Capital expenditures Dividends paid Dividends paid per share ROACE*
(billion) (billion) (%)
101 261 1.30 13.2
SAR SAR SAR
$27 $70 $0.35
(2019: $33) (2019: $73) (2019: $0.37) (2019: 28.4)
Gearing* Earnings per share Average realized
(%) (basic and diluted) crude oil price
($/barrel)
23.0 0.93 40.6
SAR
$0.25
(2019: -0.2) (2019: $0.44) (2019: $64.6)
[Page 39]
37
Operational highlights
MSC Hydrocarbon production Crude oil production1 Reliability2
(mmbpd) (mmboed) (mmbpd) (%)
12.0 12.4 9.2 99.9
(2019: 12.0) (2019: 13.2) (2019: 9.9) (2019: 99.2)
Gross refining capacity Net chemicals production Upstream carbon Flaring intensity3
(mmbpd) capacity intensity (scf/boe)
(million tonnes per year) (kg of CO2e/boe)
6.4 53.1 10.5 5.95
(2019: 6.4) (2019: 21.7) (2019: 10.4) (2019: 5.88)
Total recordable case
frequency2
(per 200,000 work hours)
* Non-IFRS measure: refer to “Non-IFRS measures reconciliations and definitions”
0.044 for further details.
1. Includes blended condensate and AGOC’s production but excludes the Kingdom
of Bahrain’s entitlement to volumes produced from the Abu Sa’fah field.
2. The Company.
(2019: 0.059) 3. Wholly owned in-Kingdom assets, SASREF, Motiva and ARLANXEO.
ecnamrofrep
dna
stluseR
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 40]
38
CFO’s message
Aramco achieved solid earnings and cash flow
and maintained a strong balance sheet, while
declaring a total dividend of SAR 281 billion
($75 billion) for 2020
The year 2020 will undoubtedly be In a year marked by uncertainty,
remembered as one of the most difficult Aramco achieved a number of milestones,
and challenging economic periods in including the successful completion of
recent history due to the COVID-19 our historic acquisition of a 70% stake
pandemic. The global economy was in SABIC, which transformed our company
severely disrupted, which resulted in into a major global petrochemicals
a collapse in energy demand and producer and strengthened the resilience
significant price volatility. There were, of our cash flow generation through
however, some positive signs of a limited synergistic opportunities.
economic recovery in the second half
of the year as demand and prices for In order to meet the challenges of the
petroleum products improved. evolving market conditions, Aramco
focused on rebalancing its cash priorities
In response to the pandemic, Aramco to maintain liquidity and preserve its
carried out comprehensive mitigation industry-leading financial position.
efforts throughout the year in order We implemented optimization and
to limit the impact of COVID-19. efficiency programs to reduce our
We completed our first full Despite the demanding conditions, capital and operating expenditures
Aramco’s operations continued without in 2020, and raised external debt,
year as a public company
any interruption, demonstrating our including the issuance of $8 billion
and successfully fulfilled operational agility and reinforcing our of Senior Unsecured Notes, while
high level of supply reliability. maintaining zero credit losses from
our responsibilities as suppliers and customers and preserving
As a result of this continued resilience, our strong credit rating.
a listed entity.”
Aramco achieved solid earnings and cash
flow, and maintained a strong balance We also completed our first full year as a
sheet, while declaring a total dividend public company, and successfully fulfilled
of SAR 281 billion ($75 billion) for 2020. our responsibilities as a listed entity,
including filing our first post-IPO Annual
Report, and holding earning calls and
inaugural annual general meeting.
[Page 41]
39
Dhahran, Aramco headquarters
We continue working across our value These strong results in 2020 demonstrate
chain to help the energy industry Aramco’s capacity and capability to
These strong results in 2020
reduce carbon emissions, develop overcome challenges across economic
a climate-friendly circular domestic cycles. Furthermore, the stability and demonstrate Aramco’s
economy, and provide sustainable energy growth of the Company’s share price in
supplies for generations to come. We are the current economic environment, and capacity and capability to
proud that our upstream carbon intensity the success of its global debt offering,
overcome challenges across
remains one of the lowest in the world is a testament to Aramco’s ability to
at 10.5 kg of CO e/boe in 2020. weather even the most demanding
2 economic cycles
of market conditions.
For the year ended December 31, 2020,
Aramco’s net income was SAR 184 billion
($49 billion), with free cash flow of Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh
SAR 184 billion ($49 billion). Capital Senior Vice President,
expenditure in 2020 totaled SAR 101 Finance, Strategy & Development
billion ($27 billion), compared to SAR 123
billion ($33 billion) in 2019, reflecting the
impact of our ongoing optimization and
efficiency programs. We also expect our
capital expenditure for 2021 to be
significantly lower than the previous
guidance.
ecnamrofrep
dna
stluseR
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 42]
40
Financial performance
Throughout 2020, we demonstrated the
agility of our financial framework through
our spending and efficiency programs,
which resulted in billions of dollars of savings
in both our capital and operational spend
The financial information of Aramco set measures introduced by countries
forth below, as at December 31, 2019 worldwide to limit the spread of the virus.
Aramco’s low-cost base and
and 2020, and for the years then ended, This led to significant volatility in crude
has been derived without material oil prices and continued pressure on
flexible operational structure
adjustment from, and is qualified in its refining and chemicals margins. These
allowed it to swiftly and entirety by, the Financial Statements trends are reflected in Aramco’s earnings
contained in Section 8: Consolidated for the year ended December 31, 2020.
successfully navigate financial statements. It should be read in
conjunction with the financial statements, In the Kingdom, the Government
through these exceptional
Section 5: Risk, and other financial data regulates the oil and gas industry and
times and, accordingly, included elsewhere in this Annual Report. establishes the Kingdom’s maximum level
of hydrocarbon production in the exercise
Aramco delivered solid Key factors affecting Aramco’s of its sovereign prerogative. Accordingly,
earnings for the year 2020 financial results the Government may in its sole discretion
increase or decrease the Kingdom’s
The following is a discussion of the most
maximum hydrocarbon production
significant factors that have impacted
levels at any time based on its strategic
Aramco’s financial position and results
energy security goals or for any other
of operations for the year ended
reason. Therefore, Aramco’s results of
December 31, 2020.
operations may depend in part on these
sovereign decisions with respect to
Supply, demand and prices for
production levels.
hydrocarbons, and refined and chemicals
products
SABIC acquisition
Aramco’s revenue and other income
On June 16, 2020, Aramco completed
related to sales are primarily driven by its
its acquisition of a 70% equity interest
sales of hydrocarbons, including crude oil,
in SABIC. This transaction led to SABIC
and refined and chemicals products,
being consolidated into Aramco’s
which are dependent on global supply
financial statements from the date of
and demand, and market prices. Crude oil
the acquisition. For further details, refer
is also a major component of the cost of
to Note 4 of the consolidated financial
production of refined products and
statements in Section 8: Consolidated
chemicals that use hydrocarbons as
financial statements.
feedstock. Accordingly, Aramco’s results
of operations and cash flows are
Term loan facility
significantly impacted by market prices
In May 2020, Aramco entered into a
and the volumes sold of hydrocarbons,
$10 billion one-year term loan facility
and refined and chemicals products.
for general corporate purposes with
various financial institutions at
Global demand and supply for crude oil,
extremely attractive rates, with an
and refined and chemicals products,
option to extend for another year at
was severely impacted by the COVID-19
lenders’ discretion. The facility was
pandemic and the associated containment
fully utilized on July 27, 2020.
[Page 43]
41
Issuance of Senior Unsecured Notes • the period for which the Company
On November 24, 2020, the Company will not be obligated to pay royalties
issued a series of USD Senior Unsecured on condensate production was
Notes (Senior Unsecured Notes) extended for an additional ten years
aggregating SAR 30.0 billion ($8.0 billion). after the current five-year period
The notes are listed on the London Stock ending on January 1, 2023, and may
Exchange’s Regulated Market. be further extended for subsequent
10-year periods, unless the Government
Recent fiscal regime changes determines the economics impacting
Effective January 1, 2020, the Government gas field development do not warrant
made a number of changes to the fiscal such an extension (effective as at
regime under which the Company January 1, 2023);
operates, impacting Aramco’s financial
• the Income Tax Law was further
results. Among other things, these
amended to provide that shares held
changes align the fiscal regime to which
directly or indirectly in companies
Aramco and other domestic hydrocarbon
listed on Tadawul by Saudi taxpayers
producers are subject to tax and royalty
engaged in oil and hydrocarbon
rates that are customary in other
activities are now exempt from
hydrocarbon producing jurisdictions.
corporate income taxes and instead
Below is a summary of the key changes:
subject to Zakat. As a result, Aramco’s
• the Government expanded the ownership interests in certain entities,
equalization mechanism to include including SABIC, Petro Rabigh,
S ABIC
LPGs and certain other products, National Shipping Company of Saudi
(effective as at January 1, 2020); Arabia and Saudi Electricity Company
are now subject to Zakat instead
• the Company and the Government Aramco completed its acquisition
of income taxes (effective as at
executed an amendment to the of a 70% equity interest in SABIC
January 1, 2020); and
Concession, which (effective as at
January 1, 2020): • the Government compensates
the Company for carrying costs
(i) r educes the royalty rate on crude
associated with maintaining
oil and condensate production
Government-mandated petroleum
to 15% (from 20%) on Brent prices
product reserves in an amount of
up to $70 per barrel;
$41.2 million per month. The Ministry
(ii) i ncreases the marginal royalty of Energy, the Ministry of Finance
rate to 45% (from 40%) on Brent and the Company will review this
prices above $70 per barrel up amount every five years (effective
to $100 per barrel; and as at January 1, 2020).
(iii) i ncreases the marginal royalty rate
Effective September 17, 2019, the
to 80% (from 50%) on Brent prices
Government also adopted regulations
above $100 per barrel;
regarding the manner in which the
• the Government determined that the Company is compensated for gas sold
tax rate applicable to the Company’s domestically in the Kingdom. The
downstream activities is the general Company is compensated by the
corporate tax rate of 20% that applies Government for revenue directly forgone
to all similar domestic downstream as a consequence of domestically
companies under the Income Tax Law, supplying Regulated Gas Products in
rather than the 50% to 85% multitiered the event that Government-established
structure of income tax rates that prices do not meet the relevant price
previously applied to domestic determined to achieve the rate of return
oil and hydrocarbons production approved by the Government for the
companies in the Kingdom. The new Company’s gas projects.
rate is conditioned on the Company
separating its downstream activities
under the control of one or more
separate wholly owned subsidiaries
before December 31, 2024 (effective
as at January 1, 2020);
ecnamrofrep
dna
stluseR
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 44]
Summarized consolidated statement of income
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 2020 2019 2020 2019 % change
Operating income 383,360 674,871 102,229 179,966 (43.2)%
Share of results of joint ventures and associates (3,554) (9,455) (948) (2,521) (62.4)%
Finance and other income 3,182 7,351 849 1,960 (56.7)%
Finance costs (10,564) (6,026) (2,817) (1,607) 75.3%
Income before income taxes and zakat 372,424 666,741 99,313 177,798 (44.1)%
Income taxes and zakat (188,661) (336,048) (50,310) (89,613) (43.9)%
Net income 183,763 330,693 49,003 88,185 (44.4)%
Average realized crude oil price ($/bbl) 40.6 64.6 (37.2)%
ROACE** 13.2% 28.4% 13.2% 28.4% (15.2) pp
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
** Refer to “Non-IFRS measures reconciliations and definitions” for further detail.
Financial results Operating costs decreased by SAR 83,183 Income vs. average realized
While the COVID-19 pandemic gave rise to ($22,181), or 14.8%, from SAR 561,914 crude price
unprecedented financial challenges across ($149,843) to SAR 478,731 ($127,662),
the global economy, Aramco’s low-cost for the years ended December 31, 2019
base and flexible operational structure and 2020, respectively. This was
$ millions $/barrel
allowed it to swiftly and successfully principally due to lower production
navigate through these exceptional times, royalties, resulting from lower crude oil
250,000
and, accordingly, Aramco delivered solid prices and volumes sold and a decrease Average realized
crude price
earnings for the year 2020. in the baseline royalty rate from 20% to 200,000
15%, in addition to a decrease in
150,000
Net income of SAR 183,763 ($49,003) purchases, which mainly reflects the
for the year ended December 31, 2020, impact of reduced prices. The decrease 100,000
primarily reflects the impact of lower was partially offset by the consolidation
crude oil prices and volumes sold, and of SABIC’s operating costs. 50,000 5
weakened refining and chemicals
25,000
margins, when compared to net income Income taxes and zakat
of SAR 330,693 ($88,185) in 2019. The charge for income taxes and zakat
for 2020 was SAR 188,661 ($50,310), 2019 2020
compared to SAR 336,048 ($89,613) Operating income
in 2019, essentially due to lower
income in 2020.
Net income
Average realized crude price
669,971
581,88
922,201
300,94
42 All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated
65
64.6
50
35
40.6
20
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
383,360 | 674,871
(9,455)
7,351
(6,026) |  | 102,229 | 179,966
(2,521)
1,960
(1,607) | (43.2)%
(3,554) |  |  | (948) |  | (62.4)%
3,182 |  |  | 849 |  | (56.7)%
(10,564) |  |  | (2,817) |  | 75.3%
372,424 | 666,741
(336,048) |  | 99,313 | 177,798
(89,613) | (44.1)%
(188,661) |  |  | (50,310) |  | (43.9)%
183,763 |  |  | 49,003 |  | (44.4)%
13.2%
| 40.6
| 13.2%
(37.2)%
(15.2) pp
66 |  |  |  |
9,971 |  |  |  |
| 581 |  | 922,2 |
| 581 |  |  |
| ,88 |  | 01 | 300,
|  |  |  | 94
[Page 45]
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 43
Summarized consolidated balance sheet
SAR USD*
As at December 31 As at December 31
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 2020 2019 2020 2019 % change
Total assets 1,914,261 1,494,126 510,470 398,434 28.1%
Total liabilities 813,167 447,891 216,845 119,438 81.6%
Significant balance sheet movements:
Property, plant and equipment 1,209,460 982,014 322,523 261,870 23.2%
Intangible assets 164,547 30,122 43,879 8,033 446.3%
Investments in joint ventures and associates 65,976 19,738 17,594 5,263 234.3%
Borrowings (non-current and current) 536,077 175,585 142,954 46,823 205.3%
Post-employment benefit obligations 54,207 21,174 14,455 5,646 156.0%
Dividend payable – 35,475 – 9,460 (100.0)%
Gearing** 23.0% (0.2)% 23.0% (0.2)% 23.2 pp
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
** Refer to “Non-IFRS measures reconciliations and definitions” for further detail.
Financial position Total liabilities were SAR 813,167 Post-employment benefit obligations
Total assets were SAR 1,914,261 ($510,470) ($216,845) at December 31, 2020, increased mostly due to the consolidation
as at December 31, 2020, compared to compared to SAR 447,891 ($119,438) at of SABIC’s post-employment benefit
SAR 1,494,126 ($398,434) as at December December 31, 2019. This increase was obligations and the re-measurement of
31, 2019, principally reflecting an increase predominantly due to higher borrowings the Company’s benefit plan assets and
in property, plant and equipment, and an increase in post-employment liabilities.
intangible assets, including goodwill, benefit obligations, partially offset by
and investments in joint ventures and the absence of a dividend payable at the The prior year’s dividend payable
associates. These increases were primarily end of the current year. represented an ordinary dividend
driven by the consolidation of SABIC onto declared in December 2019 and paid in
Aramco’s balance sheet and additions to The increase in total borrowings was January 2020. No such dividend was
property, plant and equipment, mainly largely due to the deferred consideration payable at the end of the current year.
due to the ongoing capital projects. in relation to the SABIC acquisition, the
consolidation of SABIC’s borrowings onto
Aramco’s balance sheet, the drawdown of
a new term loan facility and the issuance
of Senior Unsecured Notes.
ecnamrofrep
dna
stluseR
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|
|
|
| 510,470
| 216,845
|
|
| 322,523
| 43,879
| 17,594
|
| 142,954
| 14,455
| –
|
| 23.0%
1,914,261
813,167
1,209,460
164,547
65,976
536,077
54,207
–
28.1%
81.6%
23.2%
446.3%
234.3%
205.3%
156.0%
(100.0)%
[Page 46]
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated
Summarized consolidated statement of cash flows
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 2020 2019 2020 2019 % change
Net cash provided by operating activities 285,297 416,529 76,079 111,074 (31.5)%
Net cash used in investing activities (20,899) (177,144) (5,573) (47,239) (88.2)%
Net cash used in financing activities (234,872) (244,831) (62,632) (65,288) (4.1)%
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 207,232 177,706 55,262 47,388 16.6%
Capital expenditures (101,030) (122,882) (26,942) (32,769) (17.8)%
Free cash flow** 184,267 293,647 49,137 78,305 (37.2)%
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
** Refer to “Non-IFRS measures reconciliations and definitions” for further detail.
Cash flows Net cash used in investing activities Cash flows
Net cash provided by operating activities was SAR 20,899 ($5,573) for the year
was SAR 285,297 ($76,079) for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared
ended December 31, 2020, compared to to SAR 177,144 ($47,239) in 2019,
SAR 416,529 ($111,074) reported in 2019, a decrease of SAR 156,245 ($41,666).
a decrease of SAR 131,232 ($34,995). Capital expenditures in 2020 decreased 140,000
This principally reflects the impact of due to the implementation of
lower earnings, mainly resulting from optimization and efficiency programs. 120,000
lower crude oil prices and volumes sold In addition, net cash was also impacted
100,000
and weaker refining and chemicals by cash inflows on the maturity of
margins, partially offset by a decrease short-term investments, compared 80,000
in cash utilized in the settlement of to net purchases of short-term
60,000
income, zakat and other taxes. investments in 2019, and cash acquired
upon the acquisition of SABIC. 40,000
Net cash used in financing activities 20,000
was SAR 234,872 ($62,632) in 2020,
0
compared with SAR 244,831 ($65,288)
2019 2020
in 2019, a decrease of SAR 9,959
($2,656), which predominately reflects
the impact of cash inflows from the
drawdown of a new term loan facility
and the issuance of Senior Unsecured
Notes. This was partially offset by the
repayment of borrowings, largely in
respect of deferred consideration
related to the SABIC acquisition.
470,111
967,23
503,87 970,67
249,62
731,94
44
$ millions
Net cash provided by operating activities
Capital expenditures
Free cash flow
[TABLE DATA]
|
|
|
| 76,079
| (5,573)
| (62,632)
| 55,262
|
| (26,942)
|
| 49,137
285,297
(20,899)
(234,872)
207,232
(101,030)
(31.5)%
(88.2)%
(4.1)%
16.6%
(17.8)%
| 9 |  |  |
| 67,23 |  |  |
47 |  |  |  | 249,
0,111 | 50 |  | 97 | 62
|  |  |  |
| 3,87 |  | 0,67 | 731,
|  |  |  | 94
[Page 47]
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 45
Non-IFRS measures reconciliations and definitions
This Annual Report includes certain Aramco uses non-IFRS financial measures Report and are not intended to be
non-IFRS financial measures — ROACE, as supplementary information to its IFRS predictive of future results. In addition,
free cash flow, gearing and EBIT — which based operating performance and other companies, including those in
Aramco uses to make informed decisions financial position. The non-IFRS financial Aramco’s industry, may calculate similarly
about its financial position and operating measures are not defined by, or presented titled non-IFRS financial measures
performance or liquidity. These non-IFRS in accordance with, IFRS. The non-IFRS differently from Aramco. Because
financial measures have been included financial measures are not measurements companies do not necessarily calculate
in this Report to facilitate a better of Aramco’s operating performance or these non-IFRS financial measures in the
understanding of Aramco’s historical liquidity under IFRS and should not be same manner, Aramco’s presentation of
trends of operation and financial position. used instead of, or considered as such non-IFRS financial measures may
alternatives to, any measures of not be comparable to other similarly
performance or liquidity under IFRS. The titled non-IFRS financial measures used
non-IFRS financial measures relate to the by other companies.
reporting periods described in this Annual
Return on average capital employed (ROACE)
ROACE measures the efficiency of average of total borrowings plus total ROACE, calculated on a twelve-month
Aramco’s utilization of capital. Aramco equity at the beginning and end of the rolling basis, was 13.2% in 2020,
defines ROACE as net income before applicable period. Aramco utilizes ROACE compared to 28.4% in 2019. This decrease
finance costs, net of income taxes and to evaluate management’s performance was primarily attributable to lower net
zakat, for a period as a percentage of and demonstrate to its shareholders that income, and to a lesser extent, higher
average capital employed during that capital has been used effectively. borrowings as a result of the SABIC
period. Average capital employed is the acquisition, the drawdown of a term
loan facility and the issuance of Senior
Unsecured Notes.
SAR USD*
Twelve months Twelve months
ended December 31 ended December 31
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 2020 2019 2020 2019
Net income 183,763 330,693 49,003 88,185
Finance costs, net of income taxes and zakat 5,282 3,013 1,409 804
Net income before finance costs, net of income taxes and zakat 189,045 333,706 50,412 88,989
As at period start:
Non-current borrowings 150,690 71,329 40,184 19,021
Current borrowings 24,895 29,989 6,639 7,997
Total equity 1,046,235 1,028,435 278,996 274,249
Capital employed 1,221,820 1,129,753 325,819 301,267
As at period end:
Non-current borrowings 436,920 150,690 116,512 40,184
Current borrowings 99,157 24,895 26,442 6,639
Total equity 1,101,094 1,046,235 293,625 278,996
Capital employed 1,637,171 1,221,820 436,579 325,819
Average capital employed 1,429,496 1,175,787 381,199 313,543
ROACE 13.2% 28.4% 13.2% 28.4%
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
ecnamrofrep
dna
stluseR
| 0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
183,763 | 330,693
3,013 |  | 49,003
5,282 |  |  | 1,409
189,045 | 333,706 |  | 50,412
| 71,329
29,989
1,028,435 |  |
|  |  |
150,690 |  |  | 40,184
24,895 |  |  | 6,639
1,046,235 |  |  | 278,996
1,221,820 | 1,129,753 |  | 325,819
| 150,690
24,895
1,046,235 |  |
|  |  |
436,920 |  |  | 116,512
99,157 |  |  | 26,442
1,101,094 |  |  | 293,625
1,637,171 | 1,221,820 |  | 436,579
| 1,175,787 |  |
1,429,496 |  |  | 381,199
13.2% | 28.4% |  | 13.2%
[Page 48]
46 All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated
Free cash flow
Aramco uses free cash flow to evaluate Free cash flow in 2020 was SAR 184,267 refining and chemicals margins, partly
its cash available for financing activities, ($49,137), compared to SAR 293,647 offset by a decrease in settlement of
including dividend payments. Aramco ($78,305) in 2019, a decrease of SAR income, zakat and other taxes and lower
defines free cash flow as net cash 109,380 ($29,168), or 37%. This was capital expenditures following the
provided by operating activities less principally due to lower earnings in 2020, implementation of capital spending
capital expenditures. resulting from lower crude oil prices, optimization and efficiency programs
lower crude oil volumes sold and weaker during the year.
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 2020 2019 2020 2019
Net cash provided by operating activities 285,297 416,529 76,079 111,074
Capital expenditures (101,030) (122,882) (26,942) (32,769)
Free cash flow 184,267 293,647 49,137 78,305
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
Gearing
Gearing is a measure of the degree to Aramco’s gearing ratio was 23.0% as at
which Aramco’s operations are financed December 31, 2020, compared to -0.2%
by debt. Aramco defines gearing as the (net cash position) as at December 31,
ratio of net debt (total borrowings less 2019. This principally reflects an increase
cash and cash equivalents) to net debt in net debt, mainly due to the deferred
plus total equity. Management believes consideration payable to the PIF on
that gearing is widely used by analysts acquisition of SABIC, the drawdown
and investors in the oil and gas industry of a new term loan facility, the issuance
to indicate a company’s financial health of Senior Unsecured Notes during the
and flexibility. year, and the consolidation of SABIC’s
net debt position.
SAR USD*
As at December 31 As at December 31
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 2020 2019 2020 2019
Total borrowings (current and non-current) 536,077 175,585 142,954 46,823
Cash and cash equivalents (207,232) (177,706) (55,262) (47,388)
Net debt/(cash) 328,845 (2,121) 87,692 (565)
Total equity 1,101,094 1,046,235 293,625 278,996
Total equity and net debt/cash 1,429,939 1,044,114 381,317 278,431
Gearing 23.0% (0.2)% 23.0% (0.2)%
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
285,297 | 416,529
(122,882) |  | 76,079
(101,030) |  |  | (26,942)
184,267 | 293,647 |  | 49,137
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
536,077 | 175,585
(177,706) |  | 142,954
(207,232) |  |  | (55,262)
328,845 | (2,121)
1,046,235 |  | 87,692
1,101,094 |  |  | 293,625
1,429,939 | 1,044,114 |  | 381,317
23.0% | (0.2)% |  | 23.0%
[Page 49]
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 47
Earnings before interest, income taxes and zakat (EBIT)
Aramco defines EBIT as net income plus EBIT for 2020 was SAR 380,217 ($101,391),
finance costs and income taxes and compared to SAR 667,233 ($177,929)
zakat, less finance income. Aramco in 2019. This decrease of SAR 287,016
believes EBIT provides useful information ($76,538), or 43%, principally reflects
regarding its financial performance the impact of lower crude oil prices
to analysts and investors. and volumes sold, and weaker refining
and chemicals margins during the year.
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 2020 2019 2020 2019
Net income 183,763 330,693 49,003 88,185
Finance income (2,771) (5,534) (739) (1,476)
Finance costs 10,564 6,026 2,817 1,607
Income taxes and zakat 188,661 336,048 50,310 89,613
Earnings before interest, income taxes and zakat 380,217 667,233 101,391 177,929
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
ecnamrofrep
dna
stluseR
| 0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
183,763 | 330,693
(5,534)
6,026
336,048 |  | 49,003
(2,771) |  |  | (739)
10,564 |  |  | 2,817
188,661 |  |  | 50,310
380,217 | 667,233 |  | 101,391
[Page 50]
48
Upstream
Aramco’s Upstream segment activities
consist of exploring for, developing
and producing crude oil, condensate,
natural gas and NGL
Upstream competitive strengths
• •
Unrivalled scale of crude oil and Multiple crude grades and global
condensate production and crude oil delivery points.
conventional proved reserves.
•
Extensive high-quality gas
•
Long reserves life, with long- reserves with exclusive access
term track record of low-cost to the Kingdom’s large and
reserves replacement. growing domestic marketplace.
• •
Unique ability to capture value Crude oil extraction with a low
through active management of average carbon intensity.
the world’s largest conventional
•
hydrocarbons reserves base. Low lifting costs and capital
expenditures per barrel of oil
•
Unique operational flexibility to equivalent.
respond to changes in supply
•
and demand. Ability to execute some of the
world’s largest upstream
capital projects.
[Page 52]
50
Upstream overview detailed engineering and implementing
the Government’s directive to increase
The Upstream segment’s activities
MSC. The spare capacity afforded by
consist of exploring for, developing
maintaining MSC enables Aramco to
and producing crude oil, condensate,
increase its crude oil production above
natural gas and NGL. Aramco manages
planned levels rapidly in response to
the Kingdom’s unique reserves and
changes in global crude oil supply and
resources base to optimize production
demand, as an alternative supply option
and maximize long-term value pursuant
in case of unplanned production
to the Hydrocarbons Law, which
outages at any field and to maintain
mandates that Aramco’s hydrocarbon
the production levels during routine
operations promote long-term
field maintenance.
productivity of the Kingdom’s reservoirs
and support the prudent stewardship
In 2020, Aramco maintained its position
of its hydrocarbon resources.
Upstream’s remarkable as one of the world’s leading producers of
crude oil and condensate with an average
As set out in the Concession, Aramco
2020 operational and total daily hydrocarbon production of
has the exclusive right to explore, develop
12.4 mmboed (2019: 13.2 mmboed),
financial performance and produce the Kingdom’s hydrocarbon
including 9.2 mmbpd (2019: 9.9 mmbpd)
resources, except in the Excluded Areas,
included ensuring the safety, to an initial period of 40 years, which of crude oil (including blended condensate
and AGOC’s share of the production in the
will be extended by the Government
health and well-being of its partitioned territory and its adjoining
for 20 years provided Aramco satisfies
offshore areas in accordance with the
workforce while achieving certain conditions commensurate with
agreements between the Kingdom and
current operating practices. In addition,
historic crude oil and natural the Concession may be extended for an the State of Kuwait but excluding the
Kingdom of Bahrain’s share of volumes
additional 40 years beyond the prior
gas daily production records, produced from the Abu Sa’fah field).
60-year period subject to Aramco and
For the year ended December 31, 2020,
optimizing both capital and the Government agreeing on the terms
approximately 84% (2019: 85%) of the
of the extension. The provision of
aggregate hydrocarbon production
operating expenditures to a specified term in the Concession
consisted of liquids, which generally
impacts the calculation of Aramco’s
strengthen our cash flow, command a higher margin.
reserves as compared to the Kingdom’s
reserves in the fields Aramco operates.
maintaining our low GHG Aramco continued to maintain its low-cost
The Concession also requires Aramco
leadership position globally. In 2020,
emissions and continuing to to meet domestic demand for certain
average Upstream cost1 was SAR 26.3
hydrocarbons, petroleum products
satisfy our customers’ and LPGs through domestic production ($7.0) per boe produced, representing
a reduction of approximately SAR 1.8
or imports.
expectations both ($0.5) per boe from 2019, despite the
impact of lower average hydrocarbon
domestically and globally.” As at December 31, 2020, Aramco’s
production and the monumental
reserves under the Concession agreement
disruptions associated with the pandemic.
were 255.2 (2019: 258.6) billion boe,
This notable achievement reflects robust
Nasir K. Al-Naimi including 198.8 (2019: 201.9) billion barrels
fiscal discipline and extensive capital
Acting Business Line Head, Upstream of crude oil and condensate,
program optimizations.
25.2 (2019: 25.7) billion barrels of NGL
and 191.6 (2019: 190.6) tscf of natural gas.
The Company’s low-cost proposition is
further strengthened by the unique nature
The Government determines the
of the Company’s endowment and its
Kingdom’s maximum level of crude oil
thoughtful stewardship over the
production in the exercise of its sovereign
generations. The Kingdom’s geological
prerogative and requires Aramco to
formations, favorable onshore and
maintain MSC in excess of its then current
shallow-water offshore reservoirs, and
production in accordance with the
the sheer scale of its hydrocarbon reserves
Hydrocarbons Law. MSC was maintained
are industry differentiators. Moreover,
at 12.0 mmbpd for the year ended
synergies created by effectively leveraging
December 31, 2020. Subsequently, on
its large infrastructure and logistics
March 11, 2020, the Government (acting
networks, low-depletion rate operating
through the Ministry of Energy) directed
model, and its scaled application of
Aramco to increase MSC from 12.0 to
technology, all combined to deliver
13.0 mmbpd. Aramco is proceeding with
its competitive advantage.
1. Upstream cost is the aggregation of average lifting cost of SAR 11.3 ($3.0) per boe produced (2019: SAR 10.6 ($2.8)),
and average capital expenditures of SAR 15.0 ($4.0) (2019: 17.5 ($4.7)) per boe produced.
[Page 53]
51
Key events in 2020
• • •
Achieved historical records of Continued progressing with the Received approval for the
both crude oil and natural gas engineering and construction development of the Jafurah
production. activities for Berri, Marjan, unconventional gas field.
Tanajib, Dammam and Haradh
• •
Maintained MSC at 12.0 mmbpd increments. Resumed production at
at year end December 31, 2020. Al-Khafji Joint Operations
• Reached the design processing (KJO) in the offshore
•
Safely commissioned the sulfate capacity of 2.5 bscfd for the partitioned territory
removal facility in ‘Ain Dar and Fadhili Gas Plant. between the Kingdom
Fazran increments. and the State of Kuwait.
•
Discovered seven new fields,
of which four are
unconventional, and one
unconventional reservoir.
Rig SAR 154, ‘Ain Dar
ecnamrofrep
dna
stluseR
| 0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 54]
52 All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated
Upstream hydrocarbon production
Year ended December 31
2020 2019 % change
Crude oil1 (mbpd) 9,236 9,943 (7.1)%
Condensate (mbpd) 194 202 (4.0)%
Propane (mbpd) 500 535 (6.5)%
Butane (mbpd) 303 319 (5.0)%
Natural gasoline (mbpd) 201 222 (9.5)%
Total liquids (mbpd) 10,434 11,221 (7.0)%
Natural gas (mmscfd) 9,034 8,978 0.6%
Ethane (mmscfd) 950 960 (1.0)%
Total gas (mmscfd) 9,984 9,938 0.5%
Total hydrocarbon production2 (mboed) 12,392 13,172 (5.9)%
1. Includes AGOC’s oil production, blended condensate and excludes the Kingdom of Bahrain’s entitlement to volumes produced from the Abu Sa’fah field.
2. Total hydrocarbon production (mboed) is derived from mmscfd (for natural gas and ethane) by dividing the relevant product production by 5.400 (in the case of natural gas) and 3.330
(in the case of ethane).
Upstream financial results
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 2020 2019 2020 2019 % change
Revenue and other income related to sales
(including Inter-segment revenue) 605,470 970,395 161,459 258,772 (37.6)%
Earnings before interest, income taxes and zakat 413,214 689,894 110,190 183,972 (40.1)%
Capital expenditures — cash basis 73,651 93,927 19,640 25,047 (21.6)%
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
Earnings before interest, income taxes Capital expenditures in 2020 decreased
and zakat (EBIT) for the year ended by 21.6%, compared to the year ended
December 31, 2020 totaled SAR 413,214 December 31, 2019, from SAR 93,927
($110,190), compared to SAR 689,894 ($25,047) to SAR 73,651 ($19,640). This
($183,972) in 2019, a decrease of SAR was mainly attributable to reprioritization
276,680 ($73,782), or (40.1)%. EBIT was of development and exploration activities
primarily impacted by significant volatility while maintaining MSC.
in crude oil prices and also lower sales
volumes following the challenging
conditions caused by COVID-19, which
resulted in lower crude oil revenues
compared to prior year. This was partially
offset by the impact of lower crude oil
production royalties, resulting from lower
prices and volumes sold as well as a
decrease in the baseline royalty rate, and
higher other income related to sales.
[TABLE DATA]
9,236 | 9,943
202
535
319
222 | (7.1)%
194 |  | (4.0)%
500 |  | (6.5)%
303 |  | (5.0)%
201 |  | (9.5)%
10,434 | 11,221 | (7.0)%
| 8,978
960 |
9,034 |  | 0.6%
950 |  | (1.0)%
9,984 | 9,938 | 0.5%
| 13,172 |
12,392 |  | (5.9)%
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
605,470 | 970,395
689,894
93,927 |  | 161,459 | 258,772
183,972
25,047 | (37.6)%
|  |  |  |  |
413,214 |  |  | 110,190 |  | (40.1)%
|  |  |  |  |
73,651 |  |  | 19,640 |  | (21.6)%
[Page 55]
53
Crude oil customers or export terminals. In
particular, Aramco’s East-West pipeline
Overview
is critical in linking oil production facilities
Aramco actively manages its prolific
in the Eastern Province with Yanbu’ on
reserves base to maximize long-term
the West coast, and providing flexibility to
value while optimizing ultimate recovery
export from the East and West coasts of
from its fields. Because of the size and
the Kingdom.
number of its fields and spare capacity,
the Company is able to maintain its
Aramco owns and operates the Abqaiq
desired level of overall production by
facility, which is its largest oil processing
tapping into new reservoirs when
facility and the largest crude oil
required to improve long-term value
stabilization plant in the world. Aramco
through portfolio capacity optimization.
Diversification of supply sources for crude also operates four crude export terminals Diversification of supply
that contribute to its operational flexibility
oil from new reservoirs has the benefit of
and supply reliability. In addition, sources for crude oil from
allowing lower depletion rates from
Aramco also has strategic international
existing fields and deferring costs for new reservoirs has the
delivery points located in Rotterdam
additional wells and facilities to handle
higher total fluid displacement rates at (the Netherlands), Ain Sukhna (Egypt), benefit of allowing lower
Fujairah (United Arab Emirates) and
such fields.
Okinawa (Japan). depletion rates from
Aramco’s principal fields are located in existing fields
Aramco consistently produces five
close proximity to each other within the
grades of Arabian crude oil: Arabian
Central and Eastern Provinces of the
Super Light, Arabian Extra Light, Arabian
Kingdom. Aramco believes that its
Light, Arabian Medium and Arabian
portfolio includes the world’s largest
Heavy. These crude grades and the wide
discovered conventional onshore oil
range of blends that can be produced
field (Ghawar) and largest discovered
from them are compatible with most
conventional offshore oil field (Safaniyah).
refineries globally. In 2020, Arabian
The crude oil, condensate, natural gas and
Super Light, Arabian Extra Light and
NGL that Aramco produces from its fields
Arabian Light accounted for
travel through its extensive network of
approximately 69% (2019: 67%) of
pipelines to multiple facilities for
Aramco’s total crude oil production
processing into refined products and
and were classified as premium grades.
petrochemical products or to domestic
Abqaiq Oil Plants, Eastern Province
ecnamrofrep
dna
stluseR
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 56]
54
On a total basis, Aramco produced Highlights of the key projects are listed
12.1 9.2 mmbpd (2019: 9.9 mmbpd) of crude below:
mmbpd oil (including AGOC’s oil production, • The construction activities have
and blended condensate, but excluding
commenced on both Marjan and Berri
the Kingdom of Bahrain’s share of
increment programs. Significant
was the highest single day crude oil volumes produced from the Abu
progress has been achieved in the
production, which was achieved Sa’fah field), of which approximately
engineering design work and material
on April 2, 2020 5.6 mmbpd (2019: 6.2 mmbpd) were
procurement phases. The Marjan and
sold to third-party customers. In 2020,
Berri projects are expected to add
Aramco’s downstream business was
production capacity of 300 mbpd and
the largest customer of the Upstream’s
250 mbpd, respectively, by 2025;
crude oil, consuming approximately 39%
of its crude oil production (2019: 38%). • The ‘Ain Dar and Fazran increments,
each targeting secondary reservoirs,
Performance and achievements are in advanced stages of completion.
Despite the restrictions and challenges The facility that is required to inject
created by the COVID-19 pandemic, compatible water for pressure
Upstream demonstrated the strong maintenance was safely commissioned
integration of its reservoir management in 2020, while operations are expected
strategies and production assets during to commence in 2021 with a total
the year by rapidly increasing production production capacity of 175 mbpd;
in March 2020, from 8.9 mmbpd up to the
• The construction activities of phase one
MSC level of 12.0 mmbpd, a remarkable
of the Dammam development project
increase of approximately 35% that was
have commenced and are expecting to
achieved within a few weeks. Also,
bring 25 mbpd onstream in 2024, with
on April 2, 2020, Aramco successfully
an additional 50 mbpd in 2026; and
achieved the highest single day crude
oil production of 12.1 mmbpd. This is • Following several years of inactivity,
a clear testament to Aramco’s talented in February 2020, Aramco, through
people, operating procedures and its wholly owned subsidiary Aramco
world-class facilities. Gulf Operations Company Ltd.
(AGOC), resumed operations at
Al-Khafji Joint Operations (KJO).
AGOC operates in the offshore
partitioned territory between the
Kingdom and the State of Kuwait,
with a 50% stake in KJO.
Khurais Plant, Eastern Province
[Page 57]
55
Hasbah, Arabian Gulf
Gas and NGL Pursuant to the Concession, Aramco In-line with its strategy, Aramco is
is the exclusive supplier of natural gas seeking, over time, to develop an
Overview
in the Kingdom. Aramco sells natural integrated global gas portfolio and
Aramco’s non-associated gas fields vary
gas to power generation plants primarily continues to evaluate investment
widely in reservoir properties, depths,
pursuant to long-term contracts and and joint venture opportunities
pressures and compositions. In general,
to customers in the Kingdom’s industrial outside the Kingdom in natural gas
the southern area around the Ghawar
sector. The supply of natural gas to and LNG projects.
field has rich gas at moderate depths and
domestic customers is regulated by the
permeability, while the northern offshore
GSPR and the prices paid by domestic In 2020 and 2019, Aramco produced
fields (Karan, Arabiyah and Hasbah) have
customers are set by resolutions issued approximately 9.0 bscfd of natural gas,
leaner gas in deeper reservoirs with high
from time to time by the Council of 1.0 bscfd of ethane, and 0.2 mmbpd
permeability. Additionally, Aramco’s
Ministers. Additionally, effective January of unblended condensate. Also, our NGL
crude oil production provides a base load
1, 2020, LPGs and certain other products production in 2020 was 1.0 mmbpd with
of associated gas, which is rich in liquids.
were added to the price equalization 1.1 mmbpd in 2019.
mechanism to compensate Aramco for
Our primary natural gas processing
revenue directly forgone as a result
and fractionation facilities are located
of its compliance with the Government
in three geographical regions: Ghawar
mandates related to domestic sales
and the northern and western areas
of those products by the Company.
of the Kingdom. The facilities are
Aramco also exports a proportion
strategically located near its fields
of its NGL production.
to reduce transportation and pipeline
compression costs, as well as the time
required to deliver gas products to
market. As at December 31, 2020, the
total conventional and unconventional
raw gas processing capacity was 18.3
bscfd (2019: 17.4 bscfd), which primarily
feeds into the MGS, an extensive network
of pipelines that connects Aramco’s key
gas production and processing sites
throughout the Kingdom.
ecnamrofrep
dna
stluseR
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 58]
56
Performance and achievements • The Hawiyah Gas Plant expansion
10.7 In 2020, Aramco continued to progress project is still undergoing construction
bscfd with the major gas projects within the activities to increase total raw gas
Kingdom to meet domestic demand. processing capacity to 3.6 bscfd.
The Company, also achieved a historic The project is part of the Haradh Gas
was the highest single day natural single day production record, producing increment program and due to be
gas production, which was achieved 10.7 bscfd of natural gas on August 6, onstream in 2022;
on August 6, 2020 2020, from both conventional and
• Construction activities have commenced
unconventional fields.
on the Hawiyah Unayzah Reservoir Gas
Storage. The project will enable the
Major gas projects throughout 2020 are
Company to inject 1.5 bscfd of surplus
as follows:
natural gas from the MGS into the
• The Fadhili Gas Plant reached its design Hawiyah Unayzah Reservoir by 2022.
gas processing capacity of 2.5 bscfd In addition, the processing facilities
during the second quarter after will be able to reproduce up to 2.0 bscfd
completing its commissioning activities; of gas stored for re-introduction into
the MGS by 2024; and
• The Ethane Deep Recovery Facility
at the ‘Uthmaniyah Gas Plant was • Construction activities have started on
successfully commissioned and started the Tanajib Gas Plant, which is part of
in early 2020 with a total processing the Marjan development program to
capacity of 1.4 bscfd; add 2.5 bscfd of additional processing
capacity from Marjan, Safaniyah and
Zuluf fields and to provide artificial lift
for the Marjan field. The project is
expected to be onstream by 2025.
Above the world’s largest discovered conventional onshore oil field, Ghawar, Aramco operates
the Middle East’s most advanced large-scale carbon dioxide (CO2) capture and reinjection project,
demonstrating Aramco’s leading role toward addressing global climate challenges.
[Page 59]
57
Exploration Unconventional resources
Aramco has initiated an unconventional
Overview The unconventional
resources program and is assessing
Through our Exploration Program, the
Company continued its effort to achieve several areas within the Kingdom for their resources program consists
potential to deliver gas and associated
the strategic objectives and associated
liquids to help meet future domestic of exploration activities,
targets of growing the Kingdom’s original
energy needs. The unconventional
oil in place endowment and increasing pilots, producing wells
resources program consists of exploration
the Kingdom's non-associated gas initial
activities, pilots, producing wells and
in place endowment. The Program is and production facilities,
production facilities, with the objective of
aligned with strategic value drivers to
developing unconventional gas resources with the objective of
maximize profitability and lower future
in support of the Kingdom’s growing
finding and development costs through
demand for gas and to offset the use developing unconventional
exploring for high-value premium crude
of crude oil for power generation.
and accelerating infrastructure-led gas gas resources
exploration and delineation programs.
Performance and achievements
Aramco's exploration activities resulted
Crude oil
in the discovery of the following seven
The majority of Aramco’s current crude
new fields and one new reservoir
oil exploration activities are focused in
during 2020:
the Eastern Province, with lower levels
of exploration and expenditure in known • Crude oil: three fields, including
hydrocarbon-bearing basins in the Rub’ one unconventional discovery;
al-Khali, Northwest and Summan regions.
• Gas: three fields, including two
Aramco places strong emphasis on the
unconventional discoveries,
operational performance improvement
and one additional unconventional
of its drilling activities by applying
reservoir; and
innovative technologies and
benchmarking of key metrics to • One unconventional field that
identify trends and potential areas for has both oil and gas reservoirs.
enhancements. Aramco believes that
its approach to drilling and development Additionally, in February 2020, Aramco
has led to high levels of well integrity. received approval for the development
of the Jafurah unconventional gas field
Natural gas in the Eastern Province.
Aramco’s non-associated gas exploration
activities have yielded a number of major Outlook for 2021
discoveries, with particular success in the
Aramco is proceeding with detailed
Ghawar area and in deep reservoirs in the
engineering and implementing the
Arabian Gulf. Aramco has enjoyed high
Government’s directive to increase
success rates in locating new reserves in
MSC from 12.0 mmbpd to 13.0 mmbpd.
known hydrocarbon basins adjacent to
its existing fields and production
infrastructure, allowing it to meet
growing domestic demand at low costs
while also exploring in new basins with
high potential. Aramco is looking to
further expand its natural gas reserves
through new field discoveries, new
reservoir additions in existing fields and
the delineation and reassessment of
existing reservoirs and fields.
ecnamrofrep
dna
stluseR
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 60]
58
Downstream
Aramco’s downstream investments
diversify its revenue by integrating
its oil and gas operations to optimize
value across the hydrocarbon chain
Downstream competitive strengths
• •
Ability to monetize upstream Scale and complexity advantage,
production in a high-quality with one of the largest refining
external customer base portfolios globally.
and through a captive
•
downstream system. World-class partners that
provide access to additional
•
Strong track record of supply geographies, technological
reliability. expertise, operational know-
how, and marketing capabilities.
•
Largest customer for Aramco’s
•
upstream production. Major petrochemicals producer
globally.
•
Major integrated refiner, with
•
a global network of complex, Ability to execute some of
reliable assets in key regional the world’s largest downstream
markets and hubs. capital projects.
[Page 62]
60
Downstream overview Following the SABIC acquisition, Aramco
had a net chemicals production capacity
Aramco has a large, strategically
of 53.1 million tonnes per year (2019: 21.7)
integrated global downstream business.
as at December 31, 2020.
The Downstream segment’s activities
consist primarily of refining and
Aramco believes that acquiring this
petrochemical manufacturing, supply
majority interest in SABIC advances its
and trading, distribution and power
strategy to increase the proportion of
generation. The Downstream segment’s
petrochemicals production in its
other business activities include base
downstream portfolio and supports
oils, lubricants and retail operations.
Aramco’s downstream growth ambitions.
The strategic integration of Aramco’s
In addition, Aramco believes that the
Upstream and Downstream segments
acquisition facilitates the application
provides an opportunity for Aramco to
of SABIC’s expertise in the chemicals
secure crude oil demand by selling to
In a year of historic industry to Aramco’s existing and future
its dedicated system of domestic and
integrated downstream facilities.
international wholly owned and affiliated
challenges, we managed to Aramco’s investment in SABIC makes
refineries. In 2020, Aramco’s downstream
it a major global producer of
expand and diversify our operations consumed 39% (2019: 38%)
petrochemicals and expands its
of its crude oil production.
petrochemicals business by capabilities in procurement,
manufacturing, marketing and sales.
Aramco’s downstream investments
welcoming SABIC into the
diversify its revenue by integrating its
Aramco’s Downstream segment includes
Aramco group, improving oil and gas operations to optimize value
its crude oil and product sales, distribution
across the hydrocarbon chain, supporting
product and asset portfolios, crude oil and gas demand and facilitating and trading operations. These operations
support Aramco’s Upstream and
the placement of its crude oil. Aramco’s
laying the groundwork for Downstream activities by enabling it
net refining capacity totals 3.6 mmbpd
to optimize crude oil sales and product
our retail operations, and at December 31, 2020, while the gross
placement through its significant
refining capacity at December 31, 2020
infrastructure network of pipelines
expanding our global supply was 6.4 mmbpd.
and terminals and access to shipping
network with the world-class and logistics resources.
Aramco also has an integrated
petrochemicals business within its
reliability that our customers Aramco’s ongoing initiatives are also
downstream segment, intended to
focused on optimizing petrochemicals
have come to expect.” enable it to capture incremental margin
integration at existing facilities and
in the hydrocarbon value chain.
developing new integrated facilities.
Aramco’s chemicals business spans from
Further projects are under consideration
Mohammed Y. Al-Qahtani production of basic chemicals such as
to increase this level of integration and
Senior Vice President, Downstream aromatics, olefins and polyolefins to
capture additional value across the
more complex products such as polyols,
hydrocarbon chain, with a focus on
isocyanates and synthetic rubber.
integration of Aramco’s refining assets.
The chemicals business continues to
grow through capacity expansions in
the Kingdom, and increasing ownership
positions in affiliates and new
investments, including the acquisition
of the PIF’s 70% equity interest in
SABIC on June 16, 2020. SABIC is a
globally diversified chemicals company
with manufacturing in the Americas,
Europe, Middle East and Asia Pacific.
Following the SABIC acquisition,
Aramco’s chemicals business now
operates in over 50 countries.
[Page 63]
61
Key events in 2020
• •
Despite a challenging market environment, Central role in enabling Aramco Completed the world’s first
the Downstream business is keeping pace to reach the highest single day shipment of high-grade
with its long-term strategy to capture crude oil production blue ammonia
value across the hydrocarbon value chain
through further strategic integration and Downstream played a central role Aramco and the Institute of
diversification throughout its operations. in enabling Aramco to reach the Energy Economics, Japan (IEEJ),
highest single day crude oil in partnership with SABIC,
• Acquisition of a 70% stake production of 12.1 million barrels successfully completed the world’s
in April. This milestone was achieved first shipment of high-grade
in SABIC
by timing planned outages in close blue ammonia, reinforcing
In June 2020, Aramco successfully coordination with Upstream to Aramco’s focus on the reduction
completed the acquisition of a 70% ensure oil supply system readiness, of CO emissions.
2
stake in SABIC from the PIF, the while safely supplying to local
sovereign wealth fund of Saudi and international customers an • Continued its strong track
Arabia, for a purchase price of unprecedented record of
record of supply reliability
SAR 259.1 billion ($69.1 billion). The 11.5 mmbpd of crude oil in April.
completion of this transaction The Company continued its strong
enhances Aramco’s presence in the • Commenced sales of very-low track record of supply reliability,
global petrochemicals industry, a despite disruptions caused by
sulfur fuel oil (VLSFO)
sector expected to record rapid COVID-19, by delivering crude
growth in oil demand in the years I n line with the International Maritime oil and other products in a timely
ahead. The acquisition is the largest Organization 2020 regulations (IMO manner with 99.9% reliability
transaction in Aramco’s history and 2020), Aramco successfully in 2020 (2019: 99.2%). This robust
marks a crucial accomplishment, commenced sales of very-low sulfur performance was supported by
driving forward the Downstream fuel oil (VLSFO) bunker fuel to local Aramco Trading Company’s
strategy to grow its integrated refining bunker customers located in both the (ATC) operational agility and
and petrochemicals capacity and Red Sea and Arabian Gulf areas. logistics optimization.
create value from integration across
the hydrocarbon value chain.
Ras Tanura tank farm
ecnamrofrep
dna
stluseR
| 0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 64]
62 All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated
Downstream financial results
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 2020 2019 2020 2019 % change
Revenue and other income related to sales
(including Inter-segment revenue) 441,221 527,419 117,659 140,645 (16.3)%
Earnings (losses) before interest, income taxes and zakat (20,170) (3,478) (5,379) (927) 479.9%
Capital expenditures — cash basis 26,097 26,696 6,959 7,119 (2.2)%
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
Earnings (losses) before interest, income taxes and zakat (EBIT) for the year ended December 31, 2020, was a loss of SAR 20,170
($5,379), compared to a loss of SAR 3,478 ($927) in 2019. This is primarily due to lower refining and chemicals margins stemming from
the macroeconomic difficulties brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic, inventory re-valuation losses and an additional charge related
to fair value of assets recognized in connection with the SABIC acquisition.
Capital expenditures decreased by 2.2% from SAR 26,696 ($7,119) in 2019 to SAR 26,097 ($6,959) in 2020. The decrease in capital
expenditure was primarily driven by lower spending resulting from optimization measures, partly offset by the inclusion of SABIC’s
post-acquisition capital expenditures.
Refining Aramco’s refining operations in the
Kingdom, including its domestic
Overview
affiliates, accounted for 59% of its net
Aramco operates one of the world’s
refining capacity in both 2020 and 2019.
largest refining businesses, with gross
Together with the local distribution
refining capacity of 6.4 mmbpd as at
system, this provides Aramco unique
December 31, 2020 (December 31, 2019:
access to the large domestic marketplace
6 .4 6.4 mmbpd), and net refining capacity
to which it is the sole supplier.
of 3.6 mmbpd (December 31, 2019:
mmbpd
3.6 mmbpd). Aramco’s refining operations
In 2020, Aramco placed 23% (2019: 25%)
are conducted in the Kingdom and
of its crude oil production and 0.1 mmbpd
gross refining capacity internationally through wholly owned
(2019: 0.2 mmbpd) of condensate to
as at December 31, 2020 and affiliated refineries. The refining
in-Kingdom wholly owned and affiliated
operations allow Aramco to transform
refineries. Aramco’s equity share of
its crude oil and NGL into refined
refined products and the refined
products and chemicals for sale within
products produced through its wholly
the Kingdom and internationally.
owned refineries located within the
Kingdom are primarily distributed
Aramco specifically designs and
wholesale to domestic fuels retailers
configures its refining system to optimize
and industrial customers through
production using the crude oil it
Aramco’s pipelines, distribution and
produces, which helps reduce supply
terminals system.
chain cost and improve operational
efficiency in its refining operations,
Domestic wholly owned refining
and therefore, the supply of refined
operations
products to its downstream customers.
Once Aramco’s Jazan Refinery Complex
is ready for full operations, expected
Domestic refining
in the first half of 2021, Aramco will have
Aramco’s in-Kingdom refineries, both
five wholly owned refineries within the
wholly owned and affiliated, receive
Kingdom, three of which were built
their crude oil supply from Aramco’s
specifically to supply transportation and
upstream production.
utility fuels for the domestic marketplace.
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
441,221 | 527,419
(3,478)
26,696 |  | 117,659 | 140,645
(927)
7,119 | (16.3)%
|  |  |  |  |
(20,170) |  |  | (5,379) |  | 479.9%
|  |  |  |  |
26,097 |  |  | 6,959 |  | (2.2)%
[Page 65]
63
Domestic affiliated refining operations The net refining capacity of Aramco’s
Aramco’s four domestic affiliated international wholly owned and
refineries within the Kingdom are highly affiliated refineries was 1.5 mmbpd
competitive with other world-class (2019: 1.5 mmbpd). Product sales by
facilities based on scale, configurations Aramco’s international ventures are
and product yields. Through long-term facilitated through multiple distribution
supply agreements with these ventures, channels, including systems owned
Aramco has the right to supply all crude by the respective affiliates through
processed at these refineries. a network of over 17,000 branded
service stations.
International refining and marketing
In addition to increasing its in-Kingdom Performance and achievements
refining capability, Aramco is also In 2020, Aramco placed 9% (2019: 9%)
expanding its strategically integrated of its crude oil production, or 0.8 mmbpd
downstream business in high-growth to its domestic wholly owned refineries
economies, such as China, India and and 14% (2019: 16%), or 1.3 mmbpd
Southeast Asia, while maintaining its to its domestic affiliated refineries.
current participation in material demand Moreover, Aramco supplied 15%
centers, such as the United States and (2019: 12%) or 1.4 mmbpd of its crude
The acquisition of SABIC is
countries that rely on importing crude oil production to its international wholly
oil such as Japan and South Korea. owned and affiliated refineries. the largest transaction in
Consistent with its downstream strategy, Chemicals Aramco’s history, and marks
Aramco has invested in two refining
and petrochemical joint ventures with Overview a crucial accomplishment,
Aramco’s chemicals business represents
Petronas, the Malaysian NOC, collectively
an extension of the hydrocarbon value driving forward the
known as PRefChem. The PRefChem
chain and strategically complements
joint ventures include a 300 mbpd Downstream strategy to
its refining operations. Aramco’s
refinery, an integrated steam cracker
with a capacity to produce 1.3 million chemicals business (including through grow its integrated refining
its interest in SABIC) operates in over
tonnes of ethylene with associated
50 countries and produces a range of and petrochemicals capacity,
propylene, butadiene, benzene,
chemicals. Aramco’s growing operations
polyolefins and ethylene glycol facilities, and create value from
in chemicals include participation in
all of which are located in Johor, Malaysia,
high-growth chemical markets with
adjacent to Singapore, Asia’s refined integration across the
demand from industries such as
products trading hub. These facilities had
packaging, automotive and appliances. hydrocarbon value chain
commenced start-up in the second half of
2019, however, following a fire incident in
Aramco’s chemicals business continues to
March 2020, operations were put on hold
grow through capacity expansions in the
and are expected to restart in the first half
Kingdom, increasing ownership positions
of 2021. Aramco will provide a significant
in affiliates and new investments,
proportion of PRefChem’s crude supply
including its acquisition of the PIF’s
under a long-term supply agreement.
70% equity interest in SABIC on June 16,
Aramco believes this presents an
2020. SABIC is an industry leader in
expansion opportunity in Southeast
multiple chemical segments and its
Asia and offers new geographies for
chemical business is its largest business
its crude oil production.
unit that produces a wide range of
products, including olefins, methanol,
In 2020, Aramco’s weighted average
MTBE, aromatics, glycols, linear alpha
ownership percentage in its international
olefins, polyethylene, polypropylene,
refineries was 42% (2019: 42%), but it
polyethylene terephthalate, polyvinyl
supplied an average of 54% (2019: 51%)
chloride, polystyrene, polycarbonate
of the crude oil used by those refineries.
and engineering thermoplastics and
This crude placement provides significant
their blends.
benefits to Aramco’s operations, including
a secure and reliable supply of high-
quality crude oil, which helps to ensure
a secure and reliable supply of refined
products to its downstream customers.
ecnamrofrep
dna
stluseR
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 66]
64
Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (SABIC)
Aramco’s investment in SABIC makes it a Performance and achievements
major global producer of petrochemicals The completion of the acquisition of a
and expands its capabilities in 70% stake in SABIC from the PIF, in June
procurement, manufacturing, marketing 2020, enhances Aramco’s presence in the
and sales. Aramco expects that SABIC global petrochemicals industry, a sector
will benefit from Aramco’s downstream expected to record rapid growth in
chemicals feedstock production and oil demand in the years ahead. The
its ability to invest in and execute large acquisition is the largest transaction in
scale projects. Aramco’s history and marks a crucial
accomplishment, driving forward the
The acquisition is the largest transaction Downstream strategy.
in Aramco’s history and marks a crucial
accomplishment, driving forward the As evidenced by the acquisition of the
Downstream strategy to grow its PIF’s 70% equity interest in SABIC,
integrated refining and petrochemicals Aramco continues to execute its strategy
capacity and create value from integration toward becoming a top-tier integrated
across the hydrocarbon value chain. chemicals company through growth,
It specifically enhances Aramco’s integration, innovation, and development
Aramco has developed
chemicals strategy by: (a) transforming of its product portfolio. Investments
a retail strategy that will it into one of the major global made in integrated refining and chemicals
petrochemicals players; (b) expanding and in stand-alone chemicals illustrate
initially focus on establishing capabilities in procurement, supply chain, Aramco’s commitment and ambition
manufacturing, marketing and sales; to be the world’s preeminent integrated
its presence in the Kingdom
(c) complementing geographic presence, energy and chemicals company.
projects and partners; and (d) increasing
in advance of its long-term
the resilience of cash flow generation Following the SABIC acquisition, Aramco
goal to be one of the primary with synergistic opportunities. had a net chemicals production capacity
of 53.1 million tonnes per year (2019: 21.7)
global retail players In addition to SABIC, Aramco also as at December 31, 2020.
conducts petrochemical manufacturing
through affiliates located in the Aramco and the Institute of Energy
Kingdom, China, Japan, South Korea, Economics, Japan (IEEJ), in partnership
Malaysia, the United States and the with SABIC, successfully completed the
Netherlands with other key industry world’s first shipment of high-grade blue
players, including Dow (Sadara), ammonia. Forty tonnes were dispatched
Sumitomo (Petro Rabigh), Total (SATORP), from Saudi Arabia to Japan for use in
Petronas (PRefChem) and Sinopec zero carbon power generation,
(YASREF and FREP). Through these reinforcing Aramco’s focus on the
affiliates, Aramco produces commodity reduction of CO emissions.
2
and differentiated petrochemicals.
[Page 67]
65
Base oils Pipelines, distributions
Overview and terminals
Aramco’s three major producers and Overview
marketers of base oils, Luberef, Motiva Aramco’s Kingdom-wide distribution
and S-Oil, have rebranded their products network includes pipelines, bulk plants,
with the official Aramco brands: air refueling sites and terminals that
aramcoDURA® (Group I), aramcoPRIMA® deliver crude oil, NGL, natural gas and
(Group II), and aramcoULTRA® (Group III). refined products. The pipelines and
Aramco has also created a Base Oils bulk plants network, and the terminals
Alliance to improve supply to its global on the East and West coast, enables
customers through the strategically and the transportation of hydrocarbons for
geographically positioned affiliate export and for delivery to customers
companies. across the Kingdom. Further, Aramco’s
East-West pipeline links oil production
Performance and achievements facilities in the Eastern Province with
In 2020, Aramco sold 4.1 million tonnes Yanbu’ on the West coast, providing
(2019: 4.2 million tonnes) of base oils, flexibility to export from the East and
maintaining its position as one of the West coasts of the Kingdom.
leading marketers of base oil globally. Aramco’s three major
Aramco’s MGS, an extensive network
Retail operations of pipelines that connects its key gas producers and marketers
production and processing sites
Overview of base oils, Luberef, Motiva,
throughout the Kingdom, is currently
Aramco has developed a retail strategy
that will initially focus on establishing its undergoing an expansion. The system’s and S-Oil, have rebranded
current capacity is 9.6 bscfd of natural
presence in the Kingdom in advance of its
gas supplying Eastern, Central and their products with the
long-term goal to be one of the primary
Western industrial complexes.
global retail players. It intends to offer official Aramco brands
consumers a new line of automotive
In addition, Aramco has a 15% equity
services, coupled with branded
interest in the Arab Petroleum Pipeline
finished lubricant products, as part
Company (Sumed Company), a joint
of its commitment to diversify its
venture which operates the Sumed
downstream portfolio.
pipeline. The pipeline runs from the
Red Sea to the Mediterranean Sea
Performance and achievements
through Egypt and provides an
Aramco has finalized its new retail brand
alternative to the Suez Canal.
design concept that will be used in the
construction and re-branding of its first
Performance and achievements
wave of Aramco service stations.
In 2020, the operational resilience
of the Company’s infrastructure was
Aramco has continued to grow its fuel
demonstrated, with hydrocarbons
retail presence through its affiliates,
continuing to be delivered to customers
supplying refined products to more than
safely and on time, despite the internal
17,000 service stations worldwide with
and external challenges due to the
5,300 located in the U.S., more than 5,200
global pandemic as well as the
in China and South Korea, 6,500 in Japan
sabotage attacks on facilities. The
and 270 service stations in Saudi Arabia.
well-established emergency response
systems and contingency plans helped
to respond effectively to any emergencies
and incidents.
ecnamrofrep
dna
stluseR
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 68]
66
Ras Tanura Sea Island Terminal, Arabian Gulf
Supply and trading These operations support Aramco’s
upstream and downstream activities by
Overview
enabling it to optimize crude oil sales
Aramco manages crude oil sales
and product placement through its
operations, along with a large and
significant infrastructure network of
growing portfolio of refining and
pipelines and terminals and access to
chemicals facilities, in the three major
shipping and logistics resources. Aramco
markets of Asia, Europe, and North
also maintains flexibility to respond to
America. As part of its strategy to
fluctuations in demand through its five
unlock additional value, Aramco is
crude grades and MSC.
expanding into crude oil, refined
products and chemicals trading and is
Performance and achievements
seeking to significantly grow its total
In 2020, Aramco traded an average
traded volumes over the next few years.
of 4.7 mmbpd (2019: 4.5 mmbpd) of
crude and refined petroleum products,
Aramco’s worldwide trading activities
3.0 million tonnes of liquid chemical
adopted a globally integrated business
products (2019: 2.2 million tonnes)
model to capture maximum value
and 1.2 million tonnes of polymers
through greater market access and
(2019: 1.4 million tonnes).
Aramco is well positioned coverage. Currently, Aramco has five
global trading offices operating
to use its production and Despite lower global crude oil demand
worldwide, with wider access to
caused by the COVID-19 pandemic,
customers and greater market coverage.
distribution network to Aramco increased its market share to
7.3% (2019: 7%), translating into total
optimize its supply and With the recent increase in scale of its
crude exports of average 6.7 mmbpd
downstream operations, Aramco is well
trading capabilities positioned to use its production and (2019: 7.1 mmbpd).
distribution network to optimize its
In line with IMO 2020, Aramco
supply and trading capabilities. By
commenced sales of VLSFO bunker fuel
optimizing the production, refining and
to local bunker customers located in
distribution processes and integrating
both the Red Sea and Arabian Gulf areas.
them with its trading business, Aramco
seeks to ensure that customers receive
The Company continued its strong track
reliable service and consistent products.
record of supply reliability, despite
In addition, there is the potential to
disruptions caused by COVID-19, by
optimize product flows on a domestic and
delivering crude and other products in
international basis across regional and
a timely manner with 99.9% reliability
global supply chains to maximize value.
in 2020 (2019: 99.2%). This robust
performance was supported
by ATC’s operational agility and
logistics optimization.
[Page 69]
67
Power Outlook for 2021
Overview Aramco’s Downstream segment will The Downstream segment’s
As at December 31, 2020, Aramco’s continue to integrate across the value
primary focus is on creating
power operations comprised 17 captive chain with investments throughout its
power plants (2019: 16) and associated operations with the aim of creating
value, increasing refining
transmission and distribution assets additional value while diversifying the
located across the Kingdom. These assets portfolio and mitigating the volatility capacity, and upgrading
are primarily designed to provide of earnings.
electricity and steam to Aramco’s oil and its systems to capture
gas production facilities, gas processing The Downstream segment’s primary
synergistic opportunities
plants and wholly owned refineries in focus is on creating value, increasing
a safe, reliable, efficient and profitable refining capacity and upgrading its in order to increase
manner. Some of these power assets are systems to capture synergistic
wholly owned while others are owned by opportunities in order to increase competitiveness with
joint ventures in which Aramco has an competitiveness with international
international peers
ownership interest. Aramco also enters peers. Moreover, trading activities are
into offtake arrangements with expected to continue to increase due
independent power producers. In to an anticipated increase in refining
addition, Aramco currently owns a 6.9% capacity and the expansion of
stake in the Saudi Electricity Company third-party crude oil trading.
(SEC), the Kingdom’s national electricity
utility company, and an effective 42.2%
(2019: 24.8%) stake in Marafiq, a domestic
utility company that serves the industrial
areas of Jubail and Yanbu’.
Performance and achievements
In 2020, Aramco generated 5.4 gigawatts
(2019: 4.8 gigawatts) of power, of which
3.3 gigawatts (2019: 3.3 gigawatts)
were used to meet internal demand
and 1.6 gigawatts (2019: 1.5 gigawatts)
of spill power were transferred to the
national grid. The remaining 0.5 gigawatts
from the Fadhili Power Plant joint venture,
were supplied to SEC.
In 2020, Aramco confirmed that it would
proceed with the divestment of the Jazan
Integrated Gasification and Combined
Cycle plant into a JV between Aramco,
Air Products, ACWA Power and Air
Products Qudra, integrating the Air
Separation Unit into the JV.
ecnamrofrep
dna
stluseR
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 70]
68
Corporate
Corporate activities play an integral
role in supporting Aramco’s Upstream
and Downstream segments
Overview to growth markets and technologies brand exposure to a global audience
through portfolio optimization and of 500 million fans over 23 international
Aramco’s corporate activities primarily
strategic alignment. The Corporate races per season. Beyond building
support its Upstream and Downstream
Development organization will also brand awareness, the F1 platform will
segments, as well as the overall business.
enhance Aramco’s ability to efficiently be leveraged to promote Aramco
The corporate activities include technical
and effectively execute business technologies and solutions, particularly
services that are essential to the success
development strategies, with the objective in relation to vehicle efficiency and
of Aramco’s core business, as well as
of increasing the Company’s resilience, carbon reduction, both in sport and
human resources, finance, legal,
agility and ability to respond to changing across the transport sector. Aramco also
corporate affairs and IT.
market dynamics. sponsored a number of global golf
events, including the first professional
Performance and achievements
In 2020, Aramco also continued to expand female golf tournament ever held in
During the year, Aramco established an
on the name recognition and brand Saudi Arabia. These branding initiatives
integrated corporate development
equity of Aramco through major sports will support Aramco’s commercial
organization to align Aramco’s ambitious
partnerships. This included signing a expansion, portfolio growth, and enhance
growth strategy with its existing portfolio
long-term global sponsorship with its profile as a publicly traded company.
of assets. The organization is mandated to
Formula 1® (F1) for the 2020-2029
create value, assess and divest certain
racing seasons, providing immediate
existing assets and secure greater access
Financial performance
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 2020 2019 2020 2019 % change
Earnings (losses) before interest, income taxes and zakat (17,041) (13,098) (4,544) (3,493) 30.1%
Capital expenditures — cash basis 1,282 2,259 342 602 (43.2)%
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
Earnings (losses) before interest, income Corporate capital expenditures mainly
taxes and zakat (EBIT) principally comprise relate to various community and industrial
costs relating to the Company’s employee support projects. The decrease in
home ownership program, post- expenditures during the year was due to
employment benefits and corporate the implementation of capital spending
citizenship costs. The increase in losses optimization and efficiency programs.
in 2020 were mainly attributable to an
increase in employee related costs.
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
(17,041) | (13,098)
2,259 |  | (4,544) | (3,493)
602 | 30.1%
|  |  |  |  |
1,282 |  |  | 342 |  | (43.2)%
[Page 74]
72
Our approach to sustainability
Environmental, social and governance
considerations have long been an integral
part of Aramco’s approach to business
Turning our values into action
Our key focus areas
Sustainable practices are essential to
ensuring that Aramco continues to thrive
in the long-term, and that it remains one
of the world’s largest integrated energy
and chemicals companies throughout the
global energy transition.
The concept of "sustainability" provides
perspective on the relationship between
Aramco and its stakeholders. It allows the
Company to consider how societal and
environmental issues affect its business
and it is a driver of Aramco’s strategy. Climate change Minimizing
Sustainability factors have become environmental impact
increasingly critical for Aramco, as it aims
to balance profitability, environmental
protection, and the growth and prosperity See page 74 SeeSe pea pgaeg 7e8 [•]
of the communities in which it operates.
Internal and external engagement and
analysis have helped determine the
sustainability issues that are most
important to Aramco and its stakeholders.
In response, Aramco has developed
a framework encompassing four key
focus areas:
• Climate change;
• Minimizing environmental impact;
• Accelerating human potential; and
• Growing societal value.
Accelerating GrowingSe es poacgiee [t•a]l
Further to this overview of sustainability
human potential value
activities and key environmental, social
and governance (ESG) performance,
Aramco’s first stand-alone Sustainability
See page 82 See page 86
Report will be published in 2021 and
will contain more detailed information
on 2020 performance, and Aramco’s
positions on and approaches to key issues.
[Page 75]
73
Corporate oversight
The Company has implemented an internal
governance model that integrates sustainability
principles into business strategy, streamlines decision
making, and provides internal clarity with regard to
roles and responsibilities
A disciplined approach and aligns them with sustainability This oversight model supports a
commitments, and provides a platform disciplined internal approach, providing
The Company formed the Sustainability
for management of cross-business issues, for accountability, transparency and
Steering Committee (SSC) in 2020 to align
as well as a mutual understanding of responsibility at all levels. It also enables
sustainability related action under the
corporate sustainability for strategy the Company to identify and address the guidance and oversight of a single body.
development and external communications. key issues and opportunities to integrate
The SSC replaced the Company’s Climate
The SSC reports to, and informs, the sustainability principles within business
Initiatives Steering Committee and ESG
Company’s Strategy Council and strategy and align sustainability targets
Taskforce and their activities were
Management Committee. It also updates with business objectives.
absorbed into the SSC.
the Board of Directors’ Risk and Health,
Safety and Environment (HSE) Committee
The SSC is responsible for identifying and
on the Company’s sustainability strategy
managing sustainability issues and their
and ESG performance.
impact on long-term value creation. It
informs investment and business decisions
Ras Tanura producing facilities
ecnanrevog
dna
laicos
,latnemnorivnE
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 76]
74
Climate change
Aramco acknowledges the challenges that While the energy system is constantly
climate change presents, and recognizes growing and evolving, Aramco believes
that climate change related risks and the transition to a lower carbon system
opportunities affect how it operates and will continue to require hydrocarbon-
its investment decisions. Aramco supports based resources for many years. While
the objectives set by the Paris Agreement, alternatives to traditional hydrocarbon-
which aims to strengthen the global based energy sources are progressing,
response to the threat of climate change, they are not expected to meet future
in the context of sustainable development energy demand on their own in the
and efforts to eradicate poverty, including near-term. With existing infrastructure
by holding the increase in the global and the relatively low-cost and high
average temperature to below 2°C above utility of oil and gas, the world needs
preindustrial levels. low emission hydrocarbon solutions
to meet both the challenge of continued
As one of the world’s largest integrated high energy demand and the imperative
energy and chemicals companies, Aramco of economic development. Aramco
has a role to play in helping to build a believes it plays a leading role in this.
lower carbon economy, while delivering
the energy and materials needed to Aramco is a founding member of the
support economic growth and societal Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI), and
well-being in a world that will have collaborates within the industry through
9.8 billion inhabitants by 2050, according memberships in joint platforms, including
to the United Nations. IPIECA, the Petroleum Environmental
Research Forum, and the World Bank’s
“Zero Routine Flaring by 2030” initiative.
Aramco welcomes engagement with
stakeholders and is focused on
increasing transparency for its
stakeholders around the Company’s
response to climate change.
[Page 78]
76
Circular carbon economy The Company reinforces its commitment Minimizing flaring and
The concept of a circular carbon economy to address climate change, at a global methane emissions
scale, through its collaboration with
was presented by the Kingdom and Aramco is a signatory to the World
11 major national and international oil
endorsed by the G20 in 2020 as an Bank’s "Zero Routine Flaring by 2030"
and gas companies as part of the OGCI.
effective framework for promoting initiative and is committed to sharing
reductions in global emissions, while best practices and knowledge in flaring
With one of the lowest carbon footprints
supporting sustainable development and minimization with peer companies.
per unit of hydrocarbon produced,
economic growth. The circular carbon The Company’s flare gas recovery
Aramco intends to maintain its position
economy adopts the central elements systems, asset integrity, energy efficiency,
as one of the industry leaders in upstream
of circular economic models to reduce, and leak detection and repair programs
carbon intensity. The Company’s
reuse and recycle carbon, and adds help mitigate its carbon footprint.
upstream operations in the Kingdom
a focus on the removal of carbon as
include a number of large and productive
a means to balance existing and future As with GHG emissions, the reporting
oil reservoirs, with low gas flaring rates
energy systems with the global boundary for 2020 and 2019 flaring have
per barrel and low water production,
ambition to reduce greenhouse gas been expanded to include SASREF,
resulting in less mass lifted per unit of oil
(GHG) emissions. Motiva and ARLANXEO. In 2020, the
produced and less energy used for fluid
Company’s flaring intensity increased in
separation, handling, treatment and
Aramco seeks to be a catalyst in relation to 2019, despite achieving a
reinjection, all of which contribute to
improving processes and technologies reduction in flare gas from domestic
low upstream carbon intensity.
that support this model. Aramco is wholly owned and affiliates under
focused on reducing its emissions operational control, due to lower
The Company’s GHG emissions
footprint, leading in low carbon production. The Company maintained
management program accounts for the
intensity technologies, supporting the its upstream methane intensity at
direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2)
development of non-fuel applications 0.06% for wholly owned and operated
emissions from wholly owned and
for crude oil and targeting the most in-Kingdom assets.
operated assets, consistent with the
economic and effective solutions
Greenhouse Gas Protocol guidelines3.
across the oil and gas value chain 2020 2019
As internal reporting and quality control
and energy system. Flaring intensity1 5.95 5.88
processes have matured, GHG emissions
(scf per boe)
reporting boundaries were expanded
GHG emissions in 2019 to include affiliates under Upstream methane intensity4 0.06 0.06
(%)
Aramco's operational control, including
Aramco is pursuing initiatives to manage
SASREF, Motiva and ARLANXEO.
GHG emissions from its operations and
Correspondingly, the absolute 2019 GHG Innovation and technology
assets by investing in cost-effective and
efficient low emission technologies, emissions published herein reflect the Aramco is focused on innovation in
including carbon capture, utilization new reporting boundary. The absolute the areas of discovery and recovery,
and storage (CCUS), energy efficiency GHG emissions decrease in 2020 is mainly diversification and growth, and
programs and energy mix diversification. attributed to lower production as well sustainability, and is actively engaged
The Company has committed to as reduction in flaring and burn pit in developing cutting-edge technologies
developing and deploying innovative liquid burning. such as novel CCUS solutions for both
solutions, optimizing operations, and fixed and mobile sources and potentially
2020 2019
adopting efficient projects designs. game changing thermal and catalytic
Scope 1 emissions1 49.12 52.0 crude to chemicals processes. The
(Million metric tons of CO e)
2 Company advanced its innovation
Scope 2 emissions1 17.92 19.0 agenda with 6835 U.S. patents granted
(Million metric tons of CO 2 e) in 2020 (2019: 524).
Upstream carbon intensity4 10.5 10.4
(kg of CO e/boe)
2
1. Absolute GHG emission data reflect the Company’s emissions from wholly owned in-Kingdom assets, SASREF, Motiva and ARLANXEO. 2019 absolute GHG emissions figures
have undergone limited assurance and updated figures are published herein. 2020 absolute GHG emissions figures are estimates and are subject to change upon completion
of data validation and third-party verification in second quarter of 2021.
2. Fadhili Gas Plant and the Jazan Refinery are excluded from the 2020 GHG emissions inventory.
3. The Company’s GHG emissions reporting is based on the World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) GHG Protocol guidelines.
The Company reports emissions using the operational control basis for measurement.
4. Fadhili Gas Plant is excluded. Intensity values for 2020 are subject to change upon completion of data validation and third-party verification on the absolute 2020 GHG
emission inventory.
5. The Company and its subsidiaries ARLANXEO and Motiva.
[TABLE DATA]
5.95
0.06
49.12
17.92
10.5
[Page 79]
77
Nonmetallic pipes, a solution to the global problem of corrosion, have been
used by Aramco in most of its oil and gas facilities for more than two decades.
Aramco’s pursuit of oil and gas discovery The increasing scale and scope of New materials
focused technology progressed through Aramco’s cleaner energy capabilities
Aramco’s majority stake in SABIC and its
development and testing of autonomous are opening new commercial avenues.
strong petrochemical portfolio present
underwater vehicles to automate seismic Cleaner transport solutions play a critical
opportunities to create more sustainable
data acquisition, as well as application of role in building a more sustainable
low carbon materials. In 2020, Novel, a
GeoTracks technology, which improves future, and Aramco is working closely
50:50 joint venture with Baker Hughes,
the resolution and accuracy of basin and with leading global automotive
was created to develop and commercialize
reservoir models. In recovery, Aramco manufacturers and technology partners
nonmetallic products for the energy
advanced development of TeraPOWERS, to drive efficiency and reduce GHG
sector. Nonmetallic products are
a next generation reservoir and basin emissions. Aramco is helping to develop
increasingly being deployed in a variety
simulator that improves reservoir low-emitting, efficient and cost-
of industries from the automotive sector
management, while also progressing competitive transport propulsion systems,
to building and construction, packaging
its CO Enhanced Oil Recovery program from new combustion methods and
2 and renewables. As well as being more
that aims to sequester CO and enhance alternative engine architectures to low
2 sustainable, these advanced materials
oil recovery. climate impact fuels and innovative
are lighter than their conventional
after-treatment technologies, such as
counterparts and resistant to corrosion.
Aramco continued to develop thermal mobile carbon capture.
crude to chemicals and catalytic crude to
chemicals technologies, both of which are In 2020, Aramco sent the world’s first
innovative methods to produce chemicals blue ammonia shipment to Japan for
directly from crude. Advancements were use in zero carbon power generation,
also made in tail gas treatment marking a significant step toward
technologies to reduce emissions at sustainable hydrogen usage. The
Company facilities, and improved the process — a collaboration between
performance of sulfur recovery units to Aramco, SABIC and the Institute of
reduce sulfur emissions. Energy Economics, Japan — involved the
capture of 50 tons of associated CO
2
emissions for use in methanol production
and enhanced oil recovery.
ecnanrevog
dna
laicos
,latnemnorivnE
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 80]
78
Minimizing
environmental impact
Aramco strives to conserve natural In 2020, the Company continued to
resources and minimize the environmental implement new ways to reduce its
footprint of its activities by engaging with operational ecological footprint.
stakeholders, leveraging technology and Circular business models are being
promoting industry best practices. The implemented, aiming to create systemic
Company’s Environmental Protection change and more sustainable operations.
Policy ensures compliance with the Unlike a linear approach of extraction,
Kingdom’s environmental regulations processing, production and discarding,
as well as mitigates risks related to the a circular model builds economic,
environment and public and workers’ social and natural capital through
health. It outlines the Company’s reducing consumption of finite resources,
commitments to protect the natural minimizing waste, keeping products
environment, and emphasizes the need to and materials in use, and regenerating
regularly monitor and improve resource natural systems. The Company has started
management, carbon footprint and to incorporate circular economy principles
emissions reduction, and biodiversity. across its operations by using resources
more sustainably and converting former
Aramco seeks to comply with all waste products into valuable feedstocks.
environmental laws, regulations,
protocols and policies. An established Deployment of technological solutions
management system, aligned with are providing more reliable access
ISO 14001, and internal processes to affordable energy, reducing CO
2
support the identification of emerging emissions, enhancing fuel efficiency,
environmental risks and help us conserving water, and creating next-
prepare and execute plans to mitigate generation materials that make
any potential impacts. The Board's consumer products greener.
Risk and HSE Committee oversees the
risk management function and key
environmental performance indicators.
[Page 82]
Energy intensity Energy efficiency sewage effluent and treated reject
streams. Aramco also utilizes renewable
The Company’s energy efficiency efforts
energy sources for more sustainable water
seek to reduce energy consumption at
thousand Btu per boe Company facilities, design new facilities treatment and conveyance systems.
to be energy efficient, increase overall
2020 2019
energy efficiency, and influence and
Freshwater consumption1 32.85 36.15 promote energy efficiency at the national
(million cubic meters)
level. The Combined Heat and Power
(CHP) program, and several other energy 1. Company.
optimization initiatives, have steadily
reduced energy intensity at Company
Operational incidents,
facilities in Saudi Arabia. In 2020,
discharges and effluents
the Company implemented more
than 200 energy initiatives at its The Company proactively manages
in-Kingdom facilities, resulting in operations to avoid hydrocarbon leaks
2019 2020 13.2 mboed energy savings. and spills by maintaining asset integrity
throughout their life cycle. This approach
2020 2019 includes prevention, preparedness, and
Energy intensity1 112.4 114.1 incident response.
(thousand Btu per boe)
Deployment of online monitoring systems
1. Company.
provides continuous, reliable and
Water accurate measurements of hydrocarbons
in wastewater effluents, helping us to
Aramco is committed to conserving water
proactively manage discharges.
to minimize pressure on natural water
resources and maximize its availability
2020 2019
to future generations. Water conservation
Spills to the environment1,2 39 18
efforts entail optimizing water
(barrels)
consumption, minimizing water losses,
Hydrocarbon discharge 5 15
maximizing wastewater reuse and
to marine1
promoting the use of alternative water
(barrels)
resources, including seawater, treated
1. Company.
2. Oil spill incidents with volume > 1 bbl.
1.411 4.211
Freshwater consumption
million cubic meters
51.63
58.23
80
2019 2020
Aramco, since commencing in 1933, has consistently worked to minimize its environmental impact,
and some of Saudi Arabia’s most biologically varied areas nestle alongside the company’s operating areas.
[TABLE DATA]
39
5
[Page 83]
81
Mangroves, a powerful nature-based solution toward adapting to and mitigating
climate change in arid Saudi Arabia, are nurtured by Aramco at Safaniyah.
Waste management Biodiversity
Aramco had another year of milestones in
Waste is categorized into three One of the most notable
pursuit of its biodiversity goals, supported
management streams: hazardous,
nonhazardous (including municipal) and by the deployment of a roadmap for the achievements in 2020
Company’s biodiversity protection efforts.
inert. Management options are ranked by
One of the most notable achievements in was the successful planting
their potential environmental impact, with
2020 was the successful planting of three
the highest priority accorded to waste of 3 million mangroves,
million mangroves, bringing the total
prevention and reduction, followed by
reuse, recycling, recovery, and proper number of mangroves planted or restored bringing the total number
by Aramco along the Arabian coastline to
treatment and disposal. By using
5.3 million. This program also established of mangroves planted or
resources more sustainably and
the 63 km2 Mangrove Eco-Park in the
converting former waste products into restored by Aramco along
Eastern Province, which protects one of
valuable feedstocks, Aramco is
the few remaining old-growth mangrove
incorporating circular economy principles the Arabian coastline to
forests in the Eastern Province. The
into its value chain. In 2020, the Company
initiative is part of the Company’s ongoing 5.3 million
successfully piloted an asphalt-rubber
commitment to promote biodiversity and
mixture for road surfacing, and launched
supports climate change mitigation
a similar project based on a recycled
efforts, whereby mangrove forests also
plastic-asphalt mix.
act as natural long-term sinks for CO.
2
ecnanrevog
dna
laicos
,latnemnorivnE
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 84]
82
Accelerating human
potential
Aramco is committed to supporting Occupational health and safety
and empowering employees and the
An enterprise-wide, organizationally
communities in which it operates,
driven focus on health and safety
and prioritizes the safety and well-being
supports Aramco in protecting its
of its employees, their dependents,
workforce, preventing property losses
and contractors. Aramco provides
and avoiding business interruptions.
comprehensive training and advancement
This combines a continuous
programs for its employees, encouraging
improvement approach and a low
innovation and professional development,
risk tolerance with rigorously applied
and is committed to empowering its
operational safety procedures.
workforce and supporting national
initiatives, such as Saudi Vision 2030,
The Company’s Health, Safety, Security
through a range of programs that
and Environment (HSSE) Committee
reflect Aramco’s commitment to
establishes safety policy and standards,
citizenship and diversity.
including emergency preparedness,
incident reporting and investigation,
competency and training, community
awareness, off-the-job safety, risk
management, and asset integrity.
The HSSE Committee tracks and
monitors safety performance
across the organization to extend
accountability and improve
safety performance.
[Page 86]
84
As part of the Company’s continuous Diversity and inclusion
improvement approach to safety
Aramco is committed to nurturing a
processes and practices, the expanded
welcoming, respectful and genuinely
implementation of the Construction
inclusive culture, and diversity and
Safety Index (CSI) provided a structured
inclusion are integral to the way Aramco
risk-based platform to better monitor
operates. Aramco takes pride in providing
performance and gauge contractor
An enterprise wide, fulfilling careers for its employees,
compliance with the Company’s
who represent more than 85 different
Construction Safety Manual. The
organizationally driven nationalities. A diverse workforce not
Company also introduced a hybrid
only encourages a global perspective,
focus on health and safety exclusion zoning methodology, fashioned
it also fosters innovation, collaboration
on a combination of prescriptive-based,
and respect.
supports the Company’s consequence-based and risk-based
approaches, to better manage and
goal of protecting its The Company has a strong focus on
safeguard development around
creating employment opportunities for
workforce, preventing hydrocarbon facilities, including pipelines. Saudi Arabian nationals, with Saudi
Adopting this methodology enables
nationals employed in all posts for which
property losses and avoiding the release of additional land for
they have the necessary qualifications,
development, reduces costs, and ensures
business interruptions knowledge and experience. As of
the continued safety of the communities
December 31, 2020, approximately
in which the Company operates.
90% of the Company’s employees
were Saudi nationals.
Safety performance indicators are
established by the HSSE Committee and
Building on a history of diversity, the
reported to the Board's Risk and HSE
Company updated its corporate diversity
Committee. Formal and informal safety
and inclusion strategy to establish targets
reviews are conducted by qualified
for the employment of women in its
reviewers to assure compliance and
in-Kingdom operations, including in
operational discipline. Unfortunately, in
leadership positions, as well as targets
2020, the Company suffered one fatality
for people with special needs. As of
in its operations. All safety-related
December 31, 2020, 5.1% of the workforce
incidents are addressed in-line with the
was female, and 27% of new hires
Company’s health and safety policies and
from apprenticeship and college degree
procedures, and this incident has been
program graduates were female,
thoroughly investigated, with root causes
when compared to 9% in 2019.
identified and actions implemented to
avoid recurrence. Regretfully, a number 2020 2019
of the Company's workforce and
Company employees1 66,800 69,867
contractors died as a result of contracting
Female employees1 (%) 5.1 4.9
COVID-19. All of these cases were
reviewed and none were determined 1. Company.
to be work-related.
2020 2019
Tier 1 process safety events1,2 9 4
TRC frequency1,2,3 0.044 0.059
LTI rate1,2,3 0.011 0.016
Number of fatalities1,2 1 6
1. Company.
2. Total workforce (employees and contractors).
3. Per 200,000 man-hours.
[TABLE DATA]
66,800
5.1
9
0.044
0.011
1
[Page 87]
85
An Aramco geologist, participating in the company’s STEMania program, encourages female
students to study science, technology, engineering, and mathematics.
The Company continues to support the Well-being
STEMania program for school-age girls,
The Company's semi-annual engagement
offering university scholarships and
survey, which on this occasion was
sponsoring young Saudi women to
developed in partnership with John
pursue degrees in science, technology,
Hopkins Aramco Healthcare, to address
engineering, and mathematics.
impacts of COVID-19, informed the
This extends to collaboration with local
rapid implementation of an "Emotional
universities to leverage their engineering
Well-being Program." Focused on the
programs, identifying highly qualified
individual, the program empowers
female candidates for opportunities
employees and their families to unlock
within the Company. Women in Petro-
their full potential — enabling them to be
Technical Professional (PTP) roles are
happy, healthy, productive, and highly
also actively promoted through the
engaged — both at work and at home.
college degree sponsorship program.
Employee development
In the spring of 2020, employee
development programs were migrated
to the virtual environment in parallel with
other COVID-19 risk mitigation measures.
Between March and December, more
than 1,300 learning and development
programs were conducted online, serving
approximately 20,000 participants.
The Company also deployed courses via
the Learning through Interactive Virtual
Environment (LIVE) platform for 3,500
users, and leveraged the Harvard
ManageMentor site to reach more than
21,000 unique users for the delivery of
42,000 online learning modules.
ecnanrevog
dna
laicos
,latnemnorivnE
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
An Aramco geologist, participating in the company’s STEMania program, encourages female
students to study science, technology, engineering, and mathematics.
[Page 88]
86
Growing societal value
Developing local supply chains Since the launch of iktva in 2015, the
Company’s suppliers have tripled their
Aramco is actively building a world-class
local purchases of goods and services.
supply chain, through the In-Kingdom
There has been a 20-fold increase
Total Value Add (iktva) program, to serve
in spending by the Company’s main
the needs of the Company and its
suppliers in developing local sub-suppliers.
partners, facilitating the development
Suppliers are now investing three times
of a diverse, sustainable, and a globally
the amount on research and development
competitive energy sector in the
in the Kingdom, and their employment
Kingdom. The Company strives to
of Saudi nationals is up by 60%, with
cultivate local business with the goal
female employment increasing by
to retain 70% of all procurement spend
almost one-third.
in-Kingdom.
2020 2019 Iktva’s proven success model has become
the cornerstone for the Local Content
iktva1 (%) 57.5 55.8
and Government Procurement Authority
1. Company. localization model, which will accelerate
the maturity of the Kingdom’s industrial
Iktva provided tangible benefits to the
ecosystem across all sectors. This model
Company and Kingdom during the global
has attracted more than 450 investments.
pandemic of 2020. Localized supply chains
From Jazan Economic City to the King
enabled the Company to maintain
Salman International Complex for
operations with minimal disruption.
Maritime Industries & Services, iktva has
Many of the Company’s supply chain
created an ecosystem of integrated value
partners continued to build and startup
chains to help businesses hit the ground
facilities in-Kingdom despite the economic
running in Saudi Arabia.
downturn, ensuring the provision of
supplies and services to the Company
The iktva program has demonstrated
and retention of Saudis in the workforce.
the benefits of creating successful
Billions of dollars in economic activity
partnerships with business, government,
that historically would have left the
and academia. It also increases the
Kingdom instead remained to serve the
Company’s competitiveness, drives
interests of the Company and support
industry collaboration and brings
the local economy.
innovation to the Kingdom through
research and development. The synergy
driven by the iktva program has
delivered greater levels of prosperity
for the Kingdom, the local business
community, and Aramco.
[Page 90]
88
Citizenship
COVID-19
Aramco’s citizenship programs
throughout the Kingdom support
economic and community projects that
In response to the COVID-19 procurement processes. This was
empower people to take the next step
pandemic, Aramco adopted measures supported by a supercomputing
forward and turn ideas into reality.
to promote the safety, health and Human Resources data center
These initiatives encompass a broad
well-being of employees and that provides essential data and
spectrum, from high-profile health care
communities, while maintaining information to inform day-to-day
projects to small business startups and
a reliable supply of oil and gas to response efforts, and which has
women’s groups.
global markets — including vital been recognized by the World
inputs for the chemicals, plastics and Economic Forum as a COVID
The King Abdulaziz Center for World
pharmaceutical industries — which “Global Best Practice.”
Culture (Ithra) is Aramco’s flagship
have been essential in global
corporate citizenship initiative, and one
coronavirus response efforts. Johns Hopkins Aramco Healthcare
of the largest cultural contributions to
(JHAH) is integral to the Company’s
the Kingdom. Ithra globally showcases
A dedicated internal taskforce was medical preparedness and response
Saudi potential, facilitating the
established to ensure business to COVID-19. JHAH took proactive
generation of new creative content,
continuity, safe operations, and measures to roll-out a companywide
enabling the growth and talent of the
community well-being. Aramco health awareness campaign, including
Kingdom’s creative sector and providing
implemented numerous measures at weekly updates, and ensured all
new global cultural experiences to
each operational location, including Company employees have access to
Saudi audiences.
active prevention programs, detailed accurate and reliable information
contingency plans and leading about preventing transmission of
Aramco’s initiative to seed micro-
medical support services to minimize COVID-19, actions they should take if
industries in the Kingdom aims to
risk and provide the best possible care they display symptoms, tips on caring
empower people to shape their own
and limit contagion. for themselves at home, and where
economic future by creating additional
to receive medical assistance.
value from traditional crafts and natural
As a result of the essential nature
resources. Aramco has identified several
of their work, much of which cannot The Company also extended
micro-industries — beekeeping in
be done remotely, many employees assistance to the Kingdom’s health
al-Baha, fisheries in Yanbu' and Baish,
continue to report to their usual care sector, supplying over $50 million
olive products in al-Jouf, sewing centers
workplace. To protect them, Aramco worth of ventilators, air purification
across the country, coffee cultivation in
intensified sterilization efforts, applied devices and protective equipment for
Jazan, and rose flower products in Taif,
social distancing rules and ensured health care practitioners and patients.
which, with the right business model
strict health protocols are adhered to, An employee donations campaign,
and support, are ripe for generating
including 100% thermal screening of “Stay Home, Stay Safe,” targeted help
long-term impact for local communities.
employees and contractors across all toward the most vulnerable, with
Aramco is providing community members
facilities and company transport to employees’ donations matched 100%
with more than an additional source of
limit the possibility of contagion at by the Company. Globally, Aramco’s
income, we’re equipping them with the
both onshore and offshore facilities. regional affiliates donated cash and
knowledge and skills to establish,
medical supplies to organizations in
manage, and develop sustainable
Technology played a pivotal role, Asia, Europe, and the United States.
businesses that will make a real
from ensuring business continuity,
difference in people’s lives.
to enabling the transition of 25,000
employees to remote working with
the provision for an additional 30,000,
and enhancing the flexibility of
the supply chain through virtual
[Page 94]
92
Risk management
Risk objectives
Enterprise risk management framework
Aramco operates in an industry
characterized by price volatility,
hazardous operations, and uncertain
project outcomes. Taking informed risks
is an inherent and necessary part of doing Board
business. Aramco manages its strategic,
operational, compliance and financial
risks by continuously assessing them Risk and HSE Committee Audit Committee
and undertaking appropriate
responses. Business decisions are
made after due consideration of
rewards and associated risks.
Risk management framework
The Board of Directors provides risk Executive team
oversight as a component of its strategic
leadership. The Risk and HSE Committee
of the Board oversees the risk Management Committee
management framework and monitors
specific top corporate risks.
The primary role of the Risk and HSE
Committee is to monitor overall The framework is based on the Three Lines Model concept
management of risk and activities relating
to health, safety and the environment and
to assist the Board of Directors with:
First line: Second line: Third line:
(i) leadership, direction, and oversight Business assets Risk and control Internal audit
with respect to Aramco’s risk and facilities functions
appetite, risk tolerance, risk
framework and risk strategy;
Identify and manage risk Monitor and report risk, Provide independent assurance
(ii) governance and management of and provide guidance on the effectiveness of internal
strategic and operational risks and control systems
sustainability; and
(iii) f ostering a culture within Aramco that
emphasizes and demonstrates the
benefits of risk management.
The Audit Committee focuses on financial
risks, including financial reporting and
treasury, as well as on internal and
external compliance.
[TABLE DATA]
The framework is based on the | Three Lines Model concept
First line:
Business assets
and facilities
Identify and manage risk
Second line:
Risk and control
functions
Monitor and report risk,
and provide guidance
Third line:
Internal audit
Provide independent assurance
on the effectiveness of internal
control systems
[Page 95]
93
Aramco’s enterprise risk management organizational levels, resulting in
Principal risk categories
(ERM) framework follows the “Three Lines a hierarchy of risks from individual
Model” concept. The operating businesses departmental risks to corporate risks.
and support organizations form the First Annually, the Management Committee
1
Line, as risk owners, and have primary reviews the composition of the top risks,
responsibility for identifying and taking into consideration risks reported
managing their risks. The Second Line from the businesses, and a top-down
Risks related to macro-
comprises dedicated risk management scan for new and emerging risks. The
functions, responsible for monitoring Management Committee is updated economic environment
and reporting on risks, and providing quarterly on individual risks, and every and external factors
guidance to risk owners. Risk year several risks are presented to the
management functions include Loss Management Committee and the See page 94
Prevention, Environmental Protection, Board’s Risk and HSE Committee.
Information Security, Corporate
Emergency Management and Continuity, Decision making
Corporate Compliance, and Financial Risk 2
To reduce planning uncertainty and help
Management organizations, as well as the
manage the variability of outcomes,
Corporate ERM Group. Internal Audit, as
Aramco has embedded risk assessment
the Third Line, provides management and Risks related to Aramco,
into its strategic and investment planning.
the Audit Committee with independent Strategic scenarios are stress-tested, and its operations and industry
assurance on the effectiveness of internal
the investment portfolio is optimized
control systems.
using stochastic risk modeling. Individual See page 96
projects and investments pass through a
Management-level oversight of the
gated decision process that includes risk
ERM framework is provided by the
assessments and value assurance reviews.
Management Committee, chaired by the 3
President and CEO. He also chairs the
Risk factors
HSSE Committee, which oversees health,
safety, security and environmental risk The following risks, which are identified
Legal and regulatory risks
management; the Strategy Council, which as material, do not necessarily comprise
reviews matters of strategic risk; and the all the risks affecting Aramco. There
Conflicts of Interest and Business Ethics may be additional risks that Aramco is See page 100
Committee. Various other management- currently not aware of, or that Aramco
level committees oversee specific currently believes are immaterial, which
risk-related topics, such as the may in the future become material
4
Sustainability Steering Committee or affect Aramco’s business, financial
and the Information Security Risk position and results of operations or the
Management Steering Committee. market price of the shares. As a result
Risks related to the Kingdom
of these and other risks, the forward-
Business risk assessment looking events and circumstances
discussed in this Annual Report might See page 104
The means by which individual
not occur in the way Aramco expects, or
organizations identify, assess, mitigate,
at all. All forward-looking statements in
monitor and report risks to the
this Annual Report should be considered
achievement of business objectives is
in light of these explanations.
integrated into Aramco’s annual planning
cycle through a system based on ISO
The risks described in this section are
31000 principles and guidelines. This
not presented in order of priority
includes the escalation, as appropriate,
based on their importance or expected
of risk ownership through Aramco’s
effect on Aramco.
ksiR
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 96]
94
Risk factors
• global economic and political • prices of alternative energies, including
conditions and geopolitical events, renewable energy;
1 including any that impact international
• the electrification of transportation,
trade (including trade routes);
technological developments in the cost
• decisions regarding production levels or endurance of fuel cells for electric
by the Kingdom or other producing vehicles and changes in transportation-
Risks related to macro- states (the Kingdom is a member mode preferences, including ride-
country of OPEC) (see Section 3: Results sharing;
economic environment
and performance”);
• weather conditions affecting supply
and external factors
• the impact of natural disasters and and demand;
public health pandemics or epidemics
• fluctuations in the value of the U.S.
(such as the novel strain of coronavirus
Dollar, the currency in which crude oil
causing COVID-19) on supply and
is priced globally; and
demand for crude oil, general
economic conditions and the ability • crude oil trading activities.
to deliver crude oil;
Fluctuations in the price at which
• the development of new crude oil
Aramco sells crude oil could cause its
Aramco’s results of operations and exploration, production and
results of operations and cash flow to
cash flow are significantly impacted transportation methods or vary significantly. In addition, decreases
technological advancements in existing
by international crude oil supply in the price at which Aramco sells its
methods, including hydraulic fracturing
and demand and the price at which crude oil could have a material adverse
or “fracking”;
effect on Aramco’s results of operations
it sells crude oil.
• capital investments of oil and gas and cash flow.
companies relating to the exploration,
Sales of crude oil are the largest development and production of crude International crude oil prices have
component of Aramco’s consolidated oil reserves; fluctuated significantly in the past and
revenue and other income related to may remain volatile. Between January
sales, accounting for 56.5%, 56.4% and • the impact of climate change on the 2016 and February 2020, Brent prices
57.3% for the years ended December 31, demand for, and price of, hydrocarbons generally fluctuated between $40.0 and
2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively, and (see risk — Climate change concerns $65.0 per barrel. However, most recently,
49.1% for the year ended December 31, and impacts could reduce global Brent prices fell below $23.0 per barrel in
2020. Accordingly, Aramco’s results of demand for hydrocarbons and mid-March 2020 and generally fluctuated
operations and cash flow are significantly hydrocarbon-based products and could between $30.0 and $50.0 per barrel
impacted by the price at which it sells cause Aramco to incur costs or invest through December 31, 2020, in response
crude oil. additional capital); to the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact
• changes to environmental or other on worldwide demand for oil and
International crude oil supply and regulations or laws applicable to crude economic activity as well as other supply
demand and the sales price for crude oil oil and related products or the energy and demand factors. Because the
are affected by many factors that are industry (see risk — Aramco’s consequences and duration of these
beyond Aramco’s control, including: operations are subject to environmental events are uncertain, Aramco is not able
• markets’ expectations with respect to protection, health and safety laws and to predict the full extent and impact
future supply of petroleum and regulations and increased concerns lower oil prices will have on Aramco’s
petroleum products, demand and price regarding the safe use of chemicals and results of operations and cash flow.
changes, including future demand for plastics and their potential impact on
petroleum products in Asia; the environment have resulted in more
restrictive regulations and could lead
to new regulations);
[Page 97]
95
The COVID-19 pandemic and its Aramco is not able to predict how long factors affecting competition for refined
impact on business and economic the COVID-19 pandemic will persist or products and chemicals. Accordingly, if
how long the measures that have been the operating efficiencies and production conditions could negatively affect
introduced to respond to it will be in costs of Aramco’s refineries are not
Aramco’s business, financial
place. Aramco also cannot predict how sufficiently competitive in the geographies
position, cash flow, results of long the effects of COVID-19 and the they serve, Aramco’s business, financial
operations and price of its efforts to contain it will continue to position and results of operations could
securities. impact its business after the pandemic be materially and adversely impacted.
is under control or if additional, more
restrictive measures to combat the Climate change concerns and
The COVID-19 pandemic and measures
taken to combat it are having a pandemic will be implemented. These impacts could reduce global
impacts could result in a worsening of the
widespread impact on business and demand for hydrocarbons and
effects of the pandemic on Aramco’s
economic conditions, including on the hydrocarbon-based products and
business, cash flows, results of operations
demand for crude oil, natural gas, refined
and price of its securities. The extent to could cause Aramco to incur costs
products and petrochemicals. Public
which COVID-19 could impact Aramco’s or invest additional capital.
health authorities and governments at
business depends on future developments
local, national and international levels
that are highly uncertain and are outside
have announced various measures to Climate change concerns manifested in
of Aramco’s control, including new
respond to the pandemic, including public sentiment, government policies,
information which may quickly emerge
restrictions on travel, voluntary or laws and regulations, international
concerning the severity of the virus,
mandatory quarantines, workforce agreements and treaties and other actions
the scope of the pandemic and actions
reductions of personnel who are deemed may reduce global demand for
to contain the virus or treat its impact
to be non-essential and the full closure of hydrocarbons and propel a shift to lower
and the efficacy of such actions,
business activities deemed to be non- carbon intensity fossil fuels such as gas or
among others.
essential. These measures have severely alternative energy sources. In particular,
impacted economic activity and led to increasing pressure on governments to
Aramco operates in a highly
lower demand for crude oil, natural gas, reduce GHG emissions has led to a variety
refined products and petrochemicals. competitive environment. of actions that aim to reduce the use of
Moreover, the COVID-19 pandemic has Competitive pressure could have a fossil fuels, including, among others,
resulted in volatility in global capital material adverse impact on the carbon emission cap and trade regimes,
markets and investor sentiment, which carbon taxes, increased energy efficiency
price at which it sells crude oil and
may affect the availability, amount and standards and incentives and mandates
other products.
type of financing available to Aramco in for renewable energy and other
the future. alternative energy sources. In addition,
The sale of crude oil outside the Kingdom international agreements to limit or
In addition to its impact on economic is very competitive. Aramco’s primary reduce GHG emissions are currently in
activity, COVID-19 could have a direct competitors for the sale of crude oil various stages of implementation. For
impact on Aramco’s operations. In the outside the Kingdom include NOCs and example, the Paris Agreement became
Kingdom, public health authorities have IOCs, many of which have substantial effective in November 2016, and many
taken various measures to combat the crude oil reserves and financial resources. countries that ratified the Paris Agreement
spread of COVID-19. For example in The primary factors affecting competition are adopting domestic measures to meet
March 2020, a temporary nationwide are the price, quantity and quality of its goals, which include reducing their use
curfew was introduced, which required crude oil produced. Increased competitive of fossil fuels and increasing their use of
Aramco to adjust working hours for some pressures could have a material adverse alternative energy sources. The landscape
personnel. In addition, the health of some impact on prices at which Aramco can sell of GHG related laws and regulations has
of Aramco’s employees has been crude oil and its regional and global been in a state of constant reassessment
impacted and some of its personnel market share. and, in some cases, it is difficult to predict
have been quarantined. If public health with certainty the ultimate impact GHG
authorities determine that persons In addition, outside the Kingdom, related laws, regulations and international
suspected of or confirmed to have Aramco’s refineries in its downstream agreements will have on Aramco. In some
COVID-19 have spent time at any of segment are subject to competition in the of the areas in which Aramco operates
Aramco’s facilities, Aramco may be geographies to which they sell refined such as the Netherlands, GHG emissions
required to pause certain operations or products or petrochemicals. Competitors are regulated by the European Union
close certain facilities for a considerable include, but are not limited to, refineries Emissions Trading Scheme. In the future,
time. If a significant percentage of located in, or in close proximity to, the areas in which Aramco operates that are
Aramco’s workforce is unable to work relevant market, and in the case of not currently subject to GHG regulation
or if Aramco is required to close facilities refineries that are net importers, from may become regulated and existing GHG
because of illness or government other international producers. Operating regulations may become more stringent.
restrictions in connection with the efficiencies and production costs are key
COVID-19 pandemic, Aramco’s operations
may be negatively impacted.
ksiR
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 98]
96
Existing and future climate change demand for its products by its customers
concerns and impacts, including physical located in the region. Moreover, any such
impacts to infrastructure, and related 2 development in other parts of the world
laws, regulations, treaties, protocols, (including political and social instability or
policies and other actions could shift armed conflict in the MENA region) may
demand to other fuels, reduce demand result in other producers supplying
for hydrocarbons and hydrocarbon-based surplus capacity to Asia, thereby
Risks related to Aramco,
products, have a material adverse effect increasing competition for customers in
on Aramco’s business, financial position its operations and Asia and affecting the prices at which
and results of operations. Aramco sells its products to customers
industry there. A significant decrease in demand
for Aramco’s products in Asia could have
Terrorism and armed conflict may
a material adverse effect on its business,
materially and adversely affect
financial position and results of
Aramco. operations.
Aramco’s facilities have been targeted by Aramco is subject to operational
terrorist and other attacks. For example,
risks and hazards that may have
in September 2019, the Abqaiq facility
Aramco exports a substantial a significant impact on its
and the Khurais processing facility were
subject to attack by unmanned aerial portion of its crude oil and refined operations or result in significant
vehicles and missiles. Abqaiq is Aramco’s products to customers in Asia, and liabilities and costs.
largest oil processing facility. The Khurais adverse economic or political
field is one of Aramco’s principal oil fields. developments in Asia could impact Aramco is subject to operational risks
These attacks resulted in the temporary
its results of operations. common in the oil and gas industry,
suspension of processing at Abqaiq and
including:
Khurais. As a result, overall crude oil
production and associated gas production Aramco exports a substantial portion • crude oil or gas spills, pipeline leaks
were reduced and Aramco took a number of its crude oil and refined products to and ruptures, storage tank leaks, and
of actions to minimize the impact of lower customers in Asia. In 2020, customers accidents involving explosions, fires,
Arabian Light and Arabian Extra Light in Asia, including Aramco’s affiliated blow outs and surface cratering;
production by tapping into Aramco’s refineries located in Asia, purchased 77%
• power shortages or failures;
inventories located outside the Kingdom of its crude exports and 55% of its total
and swapping grades of deliveries to crude production. • mechanical or equipment failures;
Arabian Medium and Arabian Heavy.
• transportation interruptions and
In addition, Aramco expects to export
accidents;
In addition, in May 2019 and in August additional crude to Asia as new
2019, the East-West pipeline and the downstream assets in Asia commence • tropical monsoons, storms, floods
Shaybah field, respectively, were targeted operations. and other natural disasters; and
by unmanned aerial vehicle attacks. These
• chemical spills, discharges or releases
attacks resulted in fires and damage to Aramco expects crude exports to
of toxic or hazardous substances or
the processing and cogeneration customers in Asia to continue to constitute
gases.
infrastructure at the Shaybah NGL facility. a significant percentage of its total export
Furthermore, since 2017, areas of the and production volumes. Furthermore,
These risks could result in damage to, or
Kingdom have been subject to ballistic the refined, chemical and petrochemical
destruction of, Aramco’s properties and
missile and other aerial attacks from products that are produced at Aramco’s
facilities, death or injury to people and
Yemen, including areas of the Kingdom joint ventures and international
harm to the environment, which could
where Aramco has facilities or operations. operations in Asia are generally sold
have a significant impact on its operations
Any additional terrorist or other attacks locally and exported to other Asian
or result in significant liabilities and
could have a material adverse effect on countries. Since early 2020, economic
remediation costs. In addition, Aramco is
Aramco’s business, financial position and conditions in Asia have been significantly
not insured against all risks and insurance
results of operations, could cause Aramco impacted by the outbreak of COVID-19. If
in connection with certain risks and
to expend significant funds. there is a prolonged slowdown in
hazards may not be available. See risk
economic growth, an economic recession
— Aramco could be subject to losses from
or other adverse economic or political
risks related to insufficient insurance —
development in Asia, Aramco may
below. To the extent a subcontractor was
experience a material reduction in
responsible for the damage, Aramco’s
[Page 99]
97
recourse to the relevant subcontractor There can be no assurance that the assessment of the Kingdom’s smaller
may be limited by contract or the financial interpretations, assumptions and reservoirs would have taken several years
viability of such subcontractor. Such judgments utilized by Aramco to estimate to complete. D&M’s reserves estimation
occurrences could also interrupt Aramco’s proved reserves, or those utilized by of 214.2 billion barrels of oil equivalent
operations, delay Aramco’s projects or D&M for the purposes of preparing its reserves for the reservoirs it evaluated
damage its reputation, which could have certification letter, will prove to be was within 1% of Aramco’s internal
a material adverse effect on its business. accurate. Any significant deviation from estimation for the same reservoirs for
these interpretations, assumptions or the same Concession time period.
Furthermore, the majority of Aramco’s judgments could materially affect the
assets are located in the Kingdom and it estimated quantity or value of Aramco’s There is no independent third-party
relies heavily on a cross country pipeline proved reserves. In addition, these certification letter with respect to the
system and terminal facilities to transport estimates could change due to new balance of the Kingdom’s proved oil
crude oil and products through the information from production or drilling equivalent reserves or as at a more
Kingdom. Aramco also depends on critical activities, changes in economic factors, recent date than December 31, 2019.
assets to process its crude oil, such as the including changes in the price of Any material deviation in the quantity
Abqaiq facility, which is its largest oil hydrocarbons, changes to laws, of proved reserves could have a
processing facility and processes a regulations or the terms of the Concession material adverse effect on Aramco’s
significant amount of Aramco’s daily or other events. Further, declining financial position.
produced crude oil. The East-West hydrocarbon prices may cause certain
pipeline, the Shaybah NGL facility, the proved reserves to no longer be Aramco could be subject to losses
Abqaiq facility and the Khurais processing considered commercially viable, which
from risks related to insufficient
facility have been subject to attacks could result in downward adjustments to
insurance.
within the last few years. If Aramco’s Aramco’s estimates of Aramco’s proved
critical transport systems or processing reserves, impairment of Aramco’s assets
facilities were subject to a significant or changes to Aramco’s capital Aramco insures against risk primarily by
disruption, it could have a material expenditures and production plans. self-insuring through its captive insurance
adverse effect on Aramco’s business, Moreover, proved reserves estimates subsidiary, Stellar, which provides
financial position and results of are subject to change due to changes in insurance exclusively to Aramco. Aramco
operations. See risk — Terrorism and published rules or changes in guidelines. also obtains insurance in certain areas
armed conflict may materially and Any material reduction in the quantity or from third-party providers in excess of
adversely affect Aramco. value of Aramco’s proved reserves could the coverage provided through Stellar.
adversely affect Aramco’s business.
Aramco does not insure against all risks
Estimates of proved hydrocarbon
and its insurance may not protect it
reserves depend on significant The independent third-party
against liability from all potential events,
interpretations, assumptions and certification letter does not cover particularly catastrophic events such as
judgments. Any significant the entirety of the Kingdom’s major crude oil spills, environmental
deviation or changes in existing estimated reserves. disasters, terrorist attacks or acts of war.
In addition, it does not maintain business
economic and operating conditions
interruption insurance for disruptions to
could affect the estimated quantity Aramco retained independent petroleum
its operations and certain of its operations
consultants, D&M, to independently
and value of Aramco’s proved are insured separately from the rest of its
evaluate, as at December 31, 2019,
reserves. business. Furthermore, there can be no
reservoirs Aramco believes accounted for
assurance that Aramco can continue to
approximately 85% of its proved oil
renew its existing levels of coverage on
Aramco’s reserve estimates conform to reserves to which it has rights under the
commercially acceptable terms, or at all.
the SPE-PRMS definitions and guidelines, Concession and remain to be produced
As a result, it could incur significant
which are internationally recognized after December 31, 2019, but before
losses from uninsured risks or risks for
industry standards. Aramco’s and D&M’s December 31, 2077 (the end of the initial
which its insurance does not cover the
estimates of the quantity of Aramco’s 40-year term of the Concession plus the
entire loss. Any such losses could have
proved hydrocarbon reserves depend on first 20-year extension). Aramco chose this
a material adverse effect on Aramco’s
significant interpretations, assumptions scope because of the overall scale of the
business, financial position and results
and judgments relating to available Kingdom’s reserves and the concentration
of operations.
geological, geophysical, engineering, of deposits in the major reservoirs that
contractual, economic and other were assessed. Further independent
information, and take into account
existing economic and operating
conditions and commercial viability as at
the date the reserve estimates are made.
ksiR
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 100]
98
Aramco’s ability to achieve its These challenges have led and could lead Aramco’s historical results of
strategic growth objectives to delays in the completion of projects operations may not be easily
and increased project costs. If projects
depends on the successful delivery compared from year to year.
are delayed, cost more than expected
of current and future projects.
or do not generate the expected return,
Aramco’s operations and expected levels In recent years, the Government has
Aramco’s ability to achieve its strategic of production could be impacted. These adopted a number of changes to the fiscal
growth objectives depends, in part, on occurrences could result in Aramco regime under which Aramco operates.
the successful, timely and cost-effective reviewing and recognizing impairments These changes have a material impact on
delivery of capital projects carried out by on its projects, assuming liabilities of Aramco’s results of operations and make
Aramco or by it along with joint venture joint venture or affiliate partners or other its consolidated financial statements for
or affiliate partners. Aramco faces consequences, any of which could have certain periods less comparable,
numerous challenges in developing a material adverse effect on Aramco’s particularly with respect to revenue and
such projects, including: business, financial position and results other income related to sales, royalties
of operations. and other taxes and income taxes and
• fluctuations in the market prices for zakat. For a more detailed discussion of
hydrocarbons, which may impact its In addition, many of Aramco’s projects the fiscal regime changes and their effect
ability to finance its projects from its require significant capital expenditures. on Aramco’s consolidated financial
cash flow from operating activities or For a more detailed discussion on statements, see Section 3: Results and
make projects less economically Aramco’s capital expenditures, performance, Section 7: Additional
feasible or rendered uneconomic; see — Risks related to macro-economic financial and legal information and
• making economic estimates or environment and external factors. Section 8: Consolidated financial
assumptions based on data or statements.
conditions, including crude oil and gas If cash flows from operating activities
price assumptions, which may change; and funds from external financial
Aramco may not realize some or all
resources are not sufficient to
• constraints on the availability and cost of the expected benefits of recent
cover Aramco’s capital expenditure
of skilled labour, contractors, materials, requirements, Aramco may be required or future acquisitions, including the
equipment and facilities;
to reallocate available capital among SABIC acquisition.
• its ability to obtain funding necessary its projects or modify its capital
for the implementation of the expenditure plans, which may result
Aramco has engaged in and may continue
relevant project on terms acceptable in delays to, or cancellation of, certain
to engage in acquisitions of businesses,
to it, or at all; projects or deferral of certain capital
technologies, services, products and other
expenditures. Any change to Aramco’s
• difficulties in obtaining necessary assets from time to time. Any such
capital expenditure plans could, in
permits, complying with applicable acquisition entails various risks, including
turn, have a material adverse effect
regulations and changes to applicable that Aramco may not be able to accurately
on Aramco’s growth objectives and its
laws or regulations; assess the value, strengths and
business, financial position and results
weaknesses of the acquisition or
• difficulties coordinating multiple of operations.
investment targets, effectively integrate
contractors and sub-contractors
the purchased businesses or assets,
involved in complex projects; and
achieve the expected synergies or recover
• undertaking projects or ventures in the purchase costs of the acquired
new lines of business in which Aramco businesses or assets. Aramco may also
has limited or no prior operating incur unanticipated costs or assume
experience. unexpected liabilities and losses in
connection with any business or asset it
acquires, including in relation to the
retention of key employees, legal
contingencies (such as, contractual,
financial, regulatory, environmental or
other obligations and liabilities) and risks
related to the acquired business, and the
maintenance and integration of
procedures, controls and quality
standards. These difficulties could
impact Aramco’s ongoing business,
distract its management and employees
and increase its expenses which could,
in turn, have a material adverse effect
on its business, financial position and
results of operations.
[Page 101]
99
On June 16, 2020, Aramco acquired the • conducting business through a number Aramco’s operations are dependent
PIF’s 70% equity interest in SABIC for total of subsidiaries, joint operations and on the reliability and security of its
consideration of $69.1 billion. For the joint ventures and challenges IT systems.
acquisition to be successful for Aramco, implementing Aramco’s policies and
Aramco will need to manage its procedures in such entities; and
ownership stake in SABIC in a manner Aramco relies on the security of critical
which supports the optimization of • fluctuations in foreign currency information and operational technology SABIC’s performance. The realization of exchange rates. systems. Cyber incidents may negatively
such benefits may be affected by a impact these or other functions, and
number of factors, many of which are Operating in several countries also particularly in relation to industrial control
beyond Aramco’s control. Failure to requires significant management systems, may result in physical damage,
realize some or all of the anticipated attention and resources. The occurrence injury or loss of life and environmental
benefits of the acquisition may impact of any of these risks may be burdensome harm. Aramco’s systems are a high-profile
Aramco’s financial performance and and could have a material adverse effect target for sophisticated cyberattacks by
prospects, including the growth of its on Aramco’s business, financial position nation states, criminal hackers and
downstream business. and results of operations. competitors, and Aramco routinely fends
off malicious attempts to gain
Aramco is dependent on Senior unauthorized systems access. However,
Aramco is exposed to risks related there is a risk that determined attackers
Management and key personnel.
to operating in several countries. with access to the necessary resources
could successfully penetrate Aramco
Aramco operates in a competitive systems. Attempts to gain unauthorized
A substantial portion of Aramco’s
environment, and its success depends access to Aramco networks have been
downstream operations is conducted
upon its ability to identify, hire, develop, successful in the past, including a 2012
outside the Kingdom. Risks inherent in
motivate and retain highly qualified cyberattack in which Aramco resorted to
operating in several countries include:
Senior Management and key personnel. manual procedures for certain non-
• complying with, and managing Aramco’s Senior Management and key operational related matters while the
changes to and developments in, personnel may voluntarily terminate their breach was contained. To date, none of
a variety of laws and regulations, employment with Aramco or leave their these attempts have been material to
including price regulations, data positions due to reasons beyond Aramco’s Aramco’s financial performance or
privacy and protection laws and control. If Aramco experiences a large reputation. Nonetheless, the nature and
regulations, cybersecurity laws and number of departures of its oil and gas breadth of any potential future
regulations, changes in environmental experts in a relatively short period of cyberattack remain unknown and remote
regulations, forced divestment of time, attracting and retaining a sufficient work arrangements in response to the
assets, expropriation of property, number of replacement personnel may be outbreak of COVID-19 may increase the
cancellation or forced renegotiation challenging. If Aramco is unable to hire risk of cybersecurity incidents, data
of contract rights; and retain Senior Management and key breaches or cyberattacks. Such incidents
personnel with requisite skills and could result in significant costs, including
• complying with tax regimes in multiple
expertise, it could have a material adverse investigation and remediation expenses,
jurisdictions, the imposition of new or
effect on Aramco’s business, financial regulatory scrutiny, legal liability and the
increased withholding or other taxes or
position and results of operations. loss of personal or sensitive business or
royalties on Aramco’s income;
third-party information, and could have a
• the imposition of new, or changes to material adverse effect on Aramco’s
existing, transfer pricing regulations or operations and reputation.
the imposition of new restrictions on
foreign trade, investment or travel;
• adverse changes in economic and trade
sanctions, import or export controls
and national security measures
resulting in business disruptions,
including delays or denials of import or
export licences or blocked or rejected
financial transactions;
ksiR
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 102]
100
In February 2019, members of the U.S. defendant in a climate change case
House of Representatives and the U.S. brought by the Rhode Island Attorney
3 Senate introduced a bill that sought to General against 21 oil and gas companies
make unlawful certain conduct by foreign (“Rhode Island”). The defendants initially
states, state instrumentalities and state attempted to remove the case to federal
agents, such as taking action collectively court, but the case was remanded back
to reduce the production of oil. Although to Rhode Island state court. The federal
Legal and
the bill expired on January 3, 2021 as it district court’s remand order was affirmed
regulatory risks was not enacted by such date, there is a by the Court of Appeals for the First
possibility that a similar bill could be Circuit on October 29, 2020. On December
introduced in the future. The draft bill, if 30, 2020, the defendants filed a petition
enacted, would have expressly removed for a writ of certiorari asking the U.S.
or weakened certain sovereign defenses, Supreme Court to review the First Circuit’s
including sovereign immunity under the decision. Very similar decisions have been
FSIA with respect to certain claims. reached in other climate change cases
If a similar bill or any other legislation against oil and gas companies by the
affecting Aramco’s legal liability were Fourth Circuit in Mayor and City Counsel
to become law and result in litigation of Baltimore v. BP plc. (“City of
against Aramco, such litigation, including Baltimore”), the Ninth Circuit in Oakland,
Aramco is and has been subject to
any adverse judgment or settlement, et al. v. BP plc et al. and County of San
litigation, including with respect to
could have a material adverse effect on Mateo, et al. v. Chevron Corp., et al., and
international trade litigation, Aramco’s business, financial position and the Tenth Circuit in Board of County
disputes or agreements, and may results of operations. Commissioners v. Suncor Energy (USA),
be subject to additional litigation Inc., et al. On October 2, 2020, the U.S.
From time to time, Aramco has been Supreme Court granted certiorari to
in the future.
subject to, and remains subject to, claims review the decision of the Fourth Circuit
for title to land. For example, the case in City of Baltimore and it heard oral
Aramco is and has been subject to Al-Qarqani, et al. v. Arabian American arguments in that case on January 19,
significant litigation, primarily in the Oil Company is pending before the U.S. 2021. Due to the similarity of the cases,
United States and the Kingdom. Some Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. whether the First Circuit’s decision in the
of the most significant U.S. litigation In Al-Qarqani, the petitioners seek to Rhode Island case ultimately controls
involved allegations of violations of enforce an USD $18.0 billion arbitral could depend to a large extent on what
antitrust laws arising, in part, from the award granted by an arbitral tribunal the Supreme Court decides in the City of
Kingdom’s membership and participation under the auspices of the International Baltimore case or other similar cases.
in OPEC. Such antitrust litigation sought Arbitration Centre in Egypt. The federal While Shell agreed to defend and
extensive relief, including treble damages, district court for the Southern District of indemnify Motiva, in the event Motiva is
divestiture of assets in the United States Texas granted Saudi Aramco’s motion to not dismissed, Shell’s continued duty to
and disgorgement of profits. If granted, dismiss the case on November 17, 2020. defend and indemnify Motiva may be
this relief could have had a material The petitioners subsequently appealed reevaluated. Claims such as these could
adverse impact on Aramco. To date, the that decision to the Fifth Circuit. grow in number and Aramco and its
OPEC-related antitrust lawsuits have been affiliated companies could be the subject
dismissed on the basis of various In addition, increasing attention on of similar claims in the United States or
sovereign defenses under U.S. law, climate change risks may result in an elsewhere in the future.
including the political question and the increased possibility of litigation against
act of state doctrines, sovereign immunity Aramco and its affiliated companies. Further, Aramco’s investors could assert
under the Foreign Sovereign Immunity Claims relating to climate change matters claims against it and its Directors and
Act (“FSIA”) and other legal defenses. have been filed against companies in the Senior Executives alleging breaches
However, there is no assurance that oil and gas industry by private parties, of applicable laws and regulations,
Aramco will prevail on the basis of these shareholders of such companies, public or other legal theories.
defenses in the future and any adverse interest organizations, state attorneys
judgment or settlement could have an general, cities and other localities, Litigation in a variety of jurisdictions could
adverse effect on Aramco’s business, especially in the United States, including result in substantial costs (including civil
financial position and results of claims that the extraction and or criminal penalties, or both, damages or
operations. development of fossil fuels has increased the imposition of import trade measures)
climate change. Some of these claims and require Aramco to devote substantial
demand that the defendants pay financial resources and divert management
amounts as compensation for alleged past attention, which may have a material
and future damages resulting from adverse effect on its business, financial
climate change. On July 2, 2018, Motiva, position and results of operations.
a U.S. affiliate of Aramco, which engages
in refining activities, was named as a
[Page 103]
101
Moreover, exports of crude oil, refined Aramco operates in a regulated Violations of applicable
products and petrochemicals by Aramco industry and its business may be sanctions and trade restrictions,
or its affiliates to foreign countries may be affected by regulatory changes. as well as anti-bribery and anti-
affected by litigation, regulatory actions,
corruption laws, could adversely
investigations, disputes or agreements
that lead to the imposition of import trade The oil and gas industry in the Kingdom affect Aramco.
measures, including anti-dumping and is a regulated industry. Any change in
countervailing duties, safeguard the Kingdom to the laws, regulations, Aramco currently conducts business,
measures, import licensing and customs policies or practices relating to the oil and could in the future decide to take
requirements, and new or increased and gas industry could have a material part in new business activities, in locations
tariffs, quotas or embargos. The adverse effect on Aramco’s business, where certain parties are subject to
possibility and effect of any such financial position and results of sanctions and trade restrictions, as well
measures will depend on the laws operations. In addition, although the as anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws,
governing the foreign country to which Concession provides for an initial period imposed by the United States, the
the applicable products are being of 40 years, which will be extended by European Union and other sanctioning
exported and applicable international the Government for 20 years provided bodies. Laws and regulations governing
trade agreements. Foreign countries may Aramco satisfies certain conditions sanctions, trade restrictions, bribery and
take such measures for political or other commensurate with current operating corruption are complex and are subject
reasons, including reasons unrelated practices (and may be amended and to change.
to Aramco’s actions or operations. Since extended for an additional 40 years
the majority of Aramco’s products are thereafter subject to Aramco and the There can be no assurance that Aramco’s
exported, any such measures may have Government agreeing on the terms of corporate governance and compliance
a material adverse effect on Aramco’s the extension), there is no assurance policies and procedures (including with
business, financial position and results that the Government will not revoke respect to sanctions and trade restrictions,
of operations. the Concession in whole or in part or anti-bribery and anti-corruption) will
adversely change Aramco’s rights in
protect it from the improper conduct of
In addition, the Kingdom is a party to respect of the Concession, which would its employees or business partners, which
international trade agreements, such as have a significant effect on Aramco’s conduct could result in substantial civil
World Trade Organization agreements business, financial position and results or criminal penalties. If Aramco were to
that include commitments by the of operations. Furthermore, if the be sanctioned in the future, as a result
Kingdom with respect to the composition Kingdom were to take additional actions of its transactions with other parties or
of its laws, regulations and practices under its regulatory powers or change otherwise, such sanctions could result in
that impact international trade. The laws, regulations, policies or practices asset freezes against Aramco, restrictions
Kingdom may become a party to relating to the oil and gas industry, on investors trading securities issued by
other such agreements in the future. Aramco’s business, financial position and Aramco or other adverse consequences.
Compliance by the Kingdom with any results of operations could be materially Such penalties or sanctions could have
such commitments may directly or and adversely affected. a material adverse effect on Aramco’s
indirectly impact Aramco and could business and financial position.
cause it to alter its operations in a manner
that is costly or otherwise has a material
adverse effect on its business, financial
position or results of operations. If the
Kingdom fails to comply with these
commitments, Aramco’s business
operations could be exposed to scrutiny
and Aramco or its affiliates’ exports
could be subject to potential remedial
measures, such as duties, which could
have a material adverse effect on
Aramco’s business, financial position
and results of operations.
ksiR
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 104]
102
Aramco is required to obtain, Aramco’s operations are subject to could have a material adverse effect
maintain and renew governmental environmental protection, health on Aramco’s business, financial position
and results of operations. In particular,
licences, permits and approvals in and safety laws and regulations
in the United States, Motiva and other
order to operate its businesses. and increased concerns regarding
companies in the petroleum refining and
the safe use of chemicals and marketing industry historically used MTBE
The rights granted to Aramco under the plastics and their potential impact as a gasoline additive. Motiva is a party to
Concession represent Aramco’s licences, on the environment have resulted pending lawsuits concerning alleged
permits, and approvals necessary to environmental impacts associated with
in more restrictive regulations and
conduct business in the Kingdom with historic releases of MTBE in the United
could lead to new regulations.
respect to Hydrocarbons operations and States, many of which involve other
related activities. However, Aramco is petroleum marketers and refiners.
required to obtain and renew any licence, Aramco’s operations are subject to laws Plaintiffs in these MTBE lawsuits generally
permit, or approval that is required under and regulations relating to environmental seek to spread liability among large
the Hydrocarbons Law, GSPR or with protection, health and safety. These laws groups of oil companies and seek
respect to certain other activities and regulations govern, among other substantial damages. Additional lawsuits
unrelated to Hydrocarbons operations. things, the generation, storage, handling, and claims related to the use of MTBE,
There can be no assurance that the use, disposal and transportation of including personal-injury claims, may
relevant authorities will issue any such hazardous materials, the emission and be filed in the future. Motiva could be
licences, permits or approvals in the time discharge of hazardous materials, subject to material liabilities relating
frame anticipated by Aramco, or at all. groundwater use and contamination to MTBE claims.
Any unforeseen failure to renew, maintain and the health and safety of Aramco’s
or obtain the required permits and employees and the communities in Moreover, concerns regarding chemicals
approvals, or the revocation or which it operates. Compliance with and plastics, including their safe use and
termination of existing licences, permits these obligations can result in significant potential impact on the environment,
and approvals, may interrupt Aramco’s expenditures. If Aramco fails to comply reflect a growing trend in societal
operations and could have a material with applicable laws and regulations, demands for increasing levels of product
adverse effect on Aramco’s business, it could be subject to fines or the partial safety, environmental protection and
financial position and results or total shutdown of related operations. recycling. These concerns have led to
of operations. Aramco has, from time to time, shutdown more restrictive regulations and could
certain facilities in order to ensure lead to new regulations. They could also
compliance with applicable laws and manifest themselves in shareholder
regulations. In addition, a stricter proposals, delays or failures in obtaining
interpretation of existing laws and or retaining regulatory approvals,
regulations, any changes in these laws increased costs related to complying with
and regulations or the enactment of more restrictive regulations, delayed
new laws and regulations may impose product launches, lack of market
new obligations on Aramco or acceptance, lower sales volumes or
otherwise adversely affect Aramco’s discontinuance of chemicals or plastics
business, financial position and results products, continued pressure for more
of operations. stringent regulatory intervention and
increased litigation. These consequences
Aramco may also (i) incur significant costs could also have an adverse effect on
associated with the investigation, clean up Aramco’s business, financial position,
and restoration of contaminated land, results of operations and reputation.
water or ecosystems, as well as claims for
damage to property, and (ii) face claims of
death or injury to persons resulting from
exposure to hazardous materials or
adverse impacts on natural resources and
properties of others resulting from its
operations (including potentially from the
transportation of hazardous substances
and products, feedstock or chemical
pollution). Any such costs or liabilities
[Page 105]
103
The mechanism for equalization No assurance can be given that either
compensation Aramco receives equalization mechanism will not be
revoked or amended on terms less from the Government in respect
favorable to Aramco than the existing
of domestic sales of certain
regime. In addition, in the event that
hydrocarbons may be changed. the equalization price is less than the
regulated price, in the case of liquids,
The Concession requires Aramco to or the Blended Price is less than the
meet domestic demand for certain Domestic Price, in the case of natural
hydrocarbons, petroleum products and gas, the difference would be due from
LPGs through domestic production or Aramco to the Government. Any such
imports. In addition, pursuant to the event could have a material adverse effect
Kingdom’s regulatory regime, Aramco on Aramco’s earnings, cash flow, financial
is required to sell crude oil and certain position and results of operations.
refined products to third parties in the
Kingdom at the Government’s regulated
Aramco is required to separate its
prices. The regulated prices for these
downstream business under the
products have historically generated less
revenue for Aramco than if the same control of one or more separate,
products had been sold for export. wholly owned subsidiaries of
Aramco within a certain time
Pursuant to an equalization mechanism,
period as a condition of the
the Government compensates Aramco for
Government allowing the general
the revenue it directly forgoes as a result
of selling these products in the Kingdom corporate tax rate to apply to
at regulated prices. Under this mechanism, Aramco’s downstream business.
Aramco receives compensation for the
difference between regulated prices and
Effective January 1, 2020, the tax rate
equalization prices in respect of such sales.
applicable to Aramco’s downstream
activities is, for a five-year period, the
Furthermore, in the Kingdom, natural gas
general corporate tax rate of 20% that
prices are regulated by the Government
applies to all similar domestic downstream
and the price that domestic customers pay
companies under the Income Tax Law,
is traditionally set by the Council of
rather than the 50% to 85% multitiered
Ministers. Effective September 17, 2019,
structure of income tax rates that
the Government implemented an
previously applied to domestic oil and
equalization mechanism to compensate
hydrocarbon production companies. In
Aramco for the revenue it directly forgoes
order for the general corporate tax rate
as a result of selling Regulated Gas
to apply to Aramco’s downstream
Products in the Kingdom at Domestic
business, Aramco is required to separate
Prices, in the event that the Council of
its downstream business under the
Ministers and the Ministry of Energy do
control of one or more separate, wholly
not adjust the Domestic Prices to meet
owned subsidiaries before December 31,
the pricing of the gas projects in order
2024. If Aramco does not comply in so
to ensure Aramco receives a commercial
separating its downstream business
rate of return on each project. Under
within this five-year period, Aramco’s
this mechanism, Aramco receives
downstream business will be taxed
compensation for the difference between
retroactively on an annual basis for
Domestic Prices and Blended Prices in
such five-year period in accordance
respect of such sales.
with the multitiered tax rates applicable to
domestic oil and hydrocarbon production
companies. In such case, Aramco will be
required to pay the difference in taxes
due to the Government, which could
adversely affect its financial position.
See Section 3: Results and performance,
Section 7: Additional financial and legal
information and Section 8: Consolidated
financial statements.
ksiR
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 106]
104
day from January 1, 2019 to December 31, the Kingdom’s cash flow. Effective
2020. However, on March 11, 2020, the January 1, 2020, the marginal royalty rates
4 Government (acting through the Ministry applicable to crude oil and condensate
of Energy) directed Aramco to increase production was modified, the tax rate
MSC from 12.0 to 13.0 million barrels applicable to Aramco’s downstream
of crude oil per day. Aramco is activities was reduced and the
proceeding with detailed engineering Government expanded the equalization
Risks related
and implementing the Government’s mechanism to include LPGs and certain
to the Kingdom directive to increase MSC. other products. Moreover, the
Government guarantees amounts due
The Government’s decisions regarding to Aramco with respect to hydrocarbon
crude oil production and spare capacity, products sales from various Government
and Aramco’s costs of complying with and semi-Government entities, and
such decisions, may not maximize returns separate legal entities in which the
for Aramco. For example, Aramco may Government has share ownership or
be precluded from producing more crude control. A shortfall in funding to the
oil in response to either a decrease or Government or a decision to seek more
increase in prices, which may limit its revenue from hydrocarbons may lead the
ability to generate additional revenue or Government to change the fiscal regime
The Government determines the
to increase its production of downstream to which hydrocarbon producers in the
Kingdom’s maximum level of crude
products. In addition, a decision to Kingdom, including Aramco, are subject.
oil production and target MSC. increase the Kingdom’s MSC could require Any such change could have a material
Aramco to make significant capital adverse effect on Aramco’s business,
The Government determines the expenditures to build new infrastructure financial position and results of
Kingdom’s maximum level of crude oil and facilities. Any of these actions could operations.
production in the exercise of its sovereign have a material adverse effect on
prerogative. Accordingly, the Government Aramco’s business, financial position Political and social instability and
may in its sole discretion increase or and results of operations.
unrest and actual or potential
decrease the Kingdom’s maximum crude
armed conflicts in the MENA
oil production at any time based on its The Kingdom’s public finances
sovereign energy security goals or for any region and other areas may affect
are highly connected to the
other reason, which may be influenced Aramco’s results of operations
hydrocarbon industry.
by, among other things, global economic and financial position.
and political conditions and their
corresponding impact on the Kingdom’s The Government is expected to continue
Aramco is headquartered and conducts
policy and strategic decisions with respect to rely on royalties, taxes, dividends from
much of its business in the MENA region.
to exploration, development and Aramco and other income from the
The MENA region is strategically
production of crude oil reserves. hydrocarbon industry for a significant
important geopolitically and has been
portion of its revenue. Any change in
subject to political and security concerns
In order to facilitate rapid changes in crude oil, condensate, NGL, oil product,
and social unrest, especially in recent
production volumes, the Government chemical and natural gas prices or other
years. For example, since 2011, a number
requires Aramco to maintain MSC in occurrences that negatively affect
of countries in the region have witnessed
excess of its then current production in Aramco’s results of operations could
significant social unrest, including
accordance with the Hydrocarbons Law materially affect the macroeconomic
widespread public demonstrations, and
and has the exclusive authority to set indicators of the Kingdom, including GDP,
in certain cases, armed conflict, terrorist
MSC. MSC refers to the average maximum balance of payments and foreign trade
attacks, diplomatic disputes, foreign
number of barrels per day of crude oil and the amount of cash available to the
military intervention and a change of
that can be produced for one year during Government.
government. Armed conflict is currently
any future planning period, after taking
ongoing in Yemen, Iraq, Syria and Libya.
into account all planned capital Changes made to the Kingdom’s tax
Such social unrest and other political and
expenditures and maintenance, repair regime for hydrocarbon producers and
security concerns may not abate, may
and operating costs, and after being the royalty rate to which Aramco is
worsen and could spread to additional
given three months to make operational subject seek to align the fiscal regime to
countries. Some of Aramco’s facilities,
adjustments. Aramco incurs substantial which Aramco is subject with tax and
infrastructure and reserves are located
costs to maintain MSC and has historically royalty rates that are customary in other
near the borders of countries that have
utilized a significant amount of this spare hydrocarbon producing jurisdictions. In
been or may be impacted. No assurance
capacity. However, there can be no addition, pursuant to an equalization
can be given that these political or
assurance that it will utilize spare capacity mechanism, the Government compensates
security concerns or social unrest will
in the future. In addition, the Government Aramco for the revenue it directly forgoes
not have a material adverse effect on
has decided in the past and may in the as a result of selling crude oil and certain
Aramco’s business, financial position
future decide to increase target MSC. MSC refined products in the Kingdom at
and results of operations.
was 12.0 million barrels of crude oil per regulated prices, which further impacts
[Page 107]
105
In addition, the majority of Aramco’s Aramco’s financial position and The Government may direct
crude oil production is exported using results of operations may be Aramco to undertake projects or
international supply routes. In particular, adversely affected if the Kingdom provide assistance for initiatives
the Strait of Hormuz and the Suez Canal
stops pegging the SAR to the U.S. outside Aramco’s core business, are key shipping routes for Aramco’s
crude oil and are located in areas subject Dollar. which may not be consistent with
to political or armed conflict from time to Aramco’s immediate commercial
time. For example, in May 2019, four oil Aramco has determined that the U.S. objectives or profit maximization.
tankers, including two owned by the Dollar is its functional currency because
National Shipping Company of Saudi a substantial amount of its products are
The Government has directed, and may
Arabia-Bahri, were sabotaged near the traded in U.S. Dollars in international
in the future direct, Aramco to undertake
Strait of Hormuz, and in July 2019, a markets. However, many of its operational
projects or provide assistance for
British oil tanker was seized by Iranian and other expenses are denominated in
initiatives outside Aramco’s core business
forces in the Strait of Hormuz. In addition, SAR, which have been exchanged at a
in furtherance of the Government’s
in April and July 2018, Yemen’s Houthi fixed rate to the U.S. Dollar in the
macroeconomic, social or other objectives,
group attacked tankers operated by the Kingdom since 1986. If the Kingdom’s
leveraging Aramco’s know-how, resources
National Shipping Company of Saudi policy of pegging the SAR to the U.S.
and operational capabilities. For instance,
Arabia-Bahri off the coast of Yemen. Dollar were to change in the future and
the Government has previously directed
Any political or armed conflict or other the SAR were to become stronger relative
Aramco to develop and construct large
event, including those described above, to the U.S. Dollar, Aramco may experience
infrastructure projects and provide
that impacts Aramco’s use of the Strait a significant increase in the SAR
management, logistical and other
of Hormuz, Suez Canal or other denominated costs of its operations. Such
technical assistance for certain
international shipping routes could have an increase could have a material adverse
Government initiatives. Prior to 2017,
a material adverse effect on Aramco’s effect on Aramco’s business, financial
the Government reimbursed Aramco
business, financial position and results position and results of operations.
for its costs incurred relating to such
of operations.
Government-directed activities by
In addition, Aramco pays dividends to
allowing Aramco to reduce its tax liability
Moreover, the majority of Aramco’s the Government, in its capacity as a
or, in some cases, its taxable income by
assets and operations are located in the shareholder of Aramco, in U.S. Dollars.
the amount of costs incurred. Beginning
Kingdom, and accordingly, may be If the SAR is no longer pegged to the U.S.
on December 24, 2017, the Concession
affected by the political, social and Dollar and the value of the SAR were to
requires that all Aramco contracts with
economic conditions from time to time change, Aramco may be required to
any Government agency or any
prevailing in or affecting the Kingdom expend additional cash to fund any
arrangement for the furnishing of
or the wider MENA region. Any dividends. Such changes could have a
Hydrocarbons, services or otherwise
unexpected changes in political, social material adverse effect on Aramco’s
shall be on a commercial basis and on
or economic conditions may have a financial position.
September 5, 2019, Aramco and the
material adverse effect on Aramco, which
Government entered into a framework
could in turn have a material adverse
agreement to govern the furnishing of
effect on Aramco’s business, financial
services by Aramco to the Government.
position and results of operations or
While these projects and initiatives have
investments that Aramco has made or
generally been of national importance to
may make in the future.
the Kingdom and in Aramco’s long-term
commercial interests, they have often
Furthermore, any of the events described
been outside of Aramco’s core businesses
above may contribute to instability in the
and have not always been consistent with
MENA region and may have a material
its immediate commercial objectives or
adverse effect on investors’ willingness
profit maximization. If the Government
to invest in the Kingdom or companies
directs Aramco to undertake future
that are based in the Kingdom.
projects other than on a commercial basis,
Aramco’s financial position and results of
operation may be materially and
adversely affected.
ksiR
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 110]
108
Board of Directors
The Board of Directors (Board) of the
Company assumes responsibility
for the overall management and
supervision of the Company
and provides strategic leadership,
guidance to management,
and assesses opportunities, risks,
and risk mitigation controls of H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan H.E. Dr. Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf H.E. Mohammed A. Al-Jadaan
the Company. The Board also
oversees the establishment of an
effective governance, risk and
compliance regime.
The Chairman of the Board is
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan.
The current members of the Board
include high-ranking Saudi H.E. Mohammad M. Al-Tuwaijri H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi Sir Mark Moody-Stuart
Government officials and
former senior executives from the
international oil and gas, chemical,
petroleum refining, petrochemical,
and finance industries.
The current Board members
and their respective roles are
stated below. Mr. Andrew N. Liveris Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans Mr. Peter L. Cella
Mr. Mark A. Weinberger1 Mr. Amin H. Nasser
Board member Title Role
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan Chairman Non-executive Director
H.E. Dr. Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf Deputy Chairman Non-executive Director
H.E. Mohammed A. Al-Jadaan Director Non-executive Director
H.E. Mohammad M. Al-Tuwaijri Director Non-executive Director
H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi Director Non-executive Director
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart Director Independent Non-executive Director
Mr. Andrew N. Liveris Director Independent Non-executive Director
Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans Director Independent Non-executive Director
Mr. Peter L. Cella Director Independent Non-executive Director
Mr. Mark A. Weinberger1 Director Independent Non-executive Director
Mr. Amin H. Nasser Director, President and Executive Director
Chief Executive Officer
1. Mr. Weinberger was appointed as a member of the Board on March 31, 2020.
[Page 111]
109
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan H.E. Dr. Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf • Director of the Saudi Authority for Data
and Artificial Intelligence, since 2019;
Chairman Deputy Chairman
• Director of King Abdulaziz City for Science
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan, 51, is the Chairman H.E. Dr. Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf, 72, has served and Technology, since 2019;
of the Board. H.E. Al-Rumayyan has served as a Director of the Company since 1999. • Director of the Royal Commission for
as a Director of the Company since 2016. Currently, H.E. Dr. Al-Assaf serves as the Riyadh City, since 2019;
Currently, H.E. Al-Rumayyan serves as an Minister of State of the Kingdom and a
• Committee Chairman of the Privatization
Advisor to the General Secretariat of the member of the Council of Ministers, the
Program Committee, since 2019;
Council of Ministers and as Governor and Council of Political and Security Affairs and
Director of the Board of the PIF. He also serves the Council of Economic and Development • Chairman of the Saudi Customs, since 2018;
as Chairman of the Board of the Saudi Decision Affairs. He also serves as a Director on the • Chairman of the Non-Oil Revenue Center,
Support Center as well as a Director on the Board of the Public Investment Fund (PIF). since 2018;
Boards of Uber Technologies, Inc. and ARM • Chairman of the State Properties General
Limited. H.E. Dr. Al-Assaf has also served in the Authority, since 2018;
following capacities:
• Chairman of the General Authority of Zakat
H.E. Al-Rumayyan also currently serves in the • Minister of Foreign Affairs from 2018 to and Tax, since 2017;
following capacities: 2019;
• Committee Chairman of the Financial • Director of NEOM Company, since 2019; • Minister of State of the Kingdom from 2016 Sector Development Program Committee,
• Director of AMAALA Company, since 2019; to 2018; since 2017;
• Chairman of Saudi Arabian Mining • Minister of Finance of the Kingdom from • Committee Chairman of the Fiscal Balance
Company (Ma’aden), since 2019; 1996 to 2016; Program Committee, since 2017;
• Director of the Royal Commission for • Governor of the International Monetary • Director of National Development Fund,
Makkah City and Holy Sites, since 2018; Fund from 1996 to 2016; since 2017;
• Director of The Red Sea Development • Governor of the Arab Monetary Fund from • Director of General Authority for Military
Company, since 2018; 1996 to 2016; Industries, since 2017;
• Vice Chairman of Central Arriyadh • Governor of the Islamic Development Bank • Director of the PIF, since 2016;
Development Company, since 2018; from 1996 to 2016; and
• Director of Military Industries Corporation,
• Director of Community Development • Chairman of Sanabil Investments from 2009 since 2016;
Company, since 2018; to 2017.
• Member of the Board of Governors of the
• Chairman of Noon Investments Company, Islamic Development Bank, since 2016;
since 2017; H.E. Dr. Al-Assaf earned a Ph.D. in Economics
from Colorado State University in 1982, an M.A. • Member of the Board of Governors of the
• Director of Qiddiya Investment Company, in Economics from the University of Denver in International Monetary Fund, since 2016;
since 2018; and
1976 and a B.S. in Economics and Political • Member of the Board of Governors of the
• Chairman of Sanabil Investments Company, Science from King Saud University in 1971. World Bank, since 2016;
since 2017.
• Member of the Board of Governors of the
H.E. Mohammed A. Al-Jadaan Arab Fund for Economic and Social
H.E. Al-Rumayyan has also held the following
Development, since 2016;
positions: Director
• Member of the Board of Governors of the
• Director on the Board of SoftBank Group
Corp. from 2017 to 2020; H.E. Mohammed A. Al-Jadaan, 57, has served Arab Monetary Fund, since 2016;
as a Director of the Company since 2018. • Member of the Board of Governors of the
• Member of the Board of Governors of
Currently, H.E. Al-Jadaan serves as the Minister Arab Bank for Economic Development in
the Islamic Development Bank from 2016
of Finance of the Kingdom, acting Minister of Africa, since 2016;
to 2020;
Economy and Planning of the Kingdom and is • Member of the Board of Governors of the
• Member of the Board of the Saudi Industrial a member of the Council of Ministers. He also Asia Infrastructure Investment Bank,
Development Fund from 2016 to 2020; serves as a member of Council for Economic since 2016;
• CEO and Director of Saudi Fransi Capital LLC and Development Affairs of Saudi Arabia.
• Member of the Board of Governors of the
from 2011 to 2015;
Arab Authority for Agricultural Investment
H.E. Al-Jadaan also currently serves in the
• Director of the Saudi Stock Exchange and Development, since 2016; and
following capacities:
(Tadawul) in 2014;
• Member of the Board of Governors of the
• Chairman of Expenditure & Projects
• Director of Corporate Finance and Issuance, Arab Investment and Export Credit
Efficiency, since 2021;
CMA from 2008 to 2010; and Guarantee Corporation, since 2016.
• Chairman of Saudi Authority for Accredited
• Head of International Brokerage for Saudi
Valuers, since 2021;
Hollandi Bank from 1994 to 2004. H.E. Al-Jadaan has also served in the following
• Chairman of the National Center of capacities:
H.E. Al-Rumayyan obtained a B.S. in Government Resources Systems, since 2021;
• Chairman of the CMA from 2015 to 2016;
Accounting from King Faisal University in 1993 • Chairman of the General Organization and
and completed a General Management for Social Insurance, since 2020;
Program at Harvard Business School in 2007. • Co-founder and Managing Partner of
• Chairman of the Public Pension Agency, Al-Jadaan & Partners Law Firm from 1996 to
since 2020; 2015.
• Member of the Board of Trustees of
King Abdullah University of Science and H.E. Al-Jadaan obtained a B.A. in Islamic Shari'a
Technology, since 2020; and Islamic Economics from Imam Muhammad
• Chairman of the National Center for bin Saud Islamic University in 1986 and earned
Privatization & PPP (NCP), since 2019; a Diploma in Legal Studies from the Institute of
Public Administration, Riyadh in 1998.
• Chairman of the National Debt Management
Centre, since 2019;
ecnanrevog
etaroproC
| 0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 112]
110
H.E. Mohammad M. Al-Tuwaijri H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi Sir Mark Moody-Stuart
Director Director Director
H.E. Mohammad M. Al-Tuwaijri, 54, has served H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi, 47, has served Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, 80, has served as an
as a Director of the Company since 2018. as a Director of the Company since 2019. independent Director of the Company since
Currently, H.E. Al-Tuwaijri serves as an advisor H.E. Al-Amudi is the President of the Olayan 2007. Currently, Sir Mark serves as Chairman of
to the Saudi Royal Court in a Minister rank, Financing Company. He is also Chairman of the Global Compact Foundation and of Zamyn.
a member of the Council for Economic and the Board of Trustees of Imam Abdulrahman He also serves as an Advisory Board Member of
Development Affairs (CEDA), Vice Chairman Bin Faisal University and a member of the Envision Energy Ltd.
of the National Development Fund (NDF), Board of Directors of the Habib Medical Group
a member of the Strategic Management and the Olayan Saudi Holding Company. Sir Mark has also served in the following
Committee, a member of the Finance capacities:
Committee in the Saudi Royal Court, a member H.E. Al-Amudi has also served in the following • Chairman of the Innovative Vector Control
of the Supreme Coordination Committee for capacities: Consortium from 2008 to 2018;
Crisis Challenges, a Director of the PIF and a • Director of the Red Sea Company from 2017 • Vice Chairman of the UN Global Compact
Director of the Royal Commission for Makkah to 2020; from 2006 to 2018;
City and Holy Sites (RCMC).
• Director of the NEOM Company from 2018 • Council Member of the International
to 2020; Integrated Reporting Council from 2010
H.E. Al-Tuwaijri also currently serves in the
• Minister of Transport of the Kingdom and to 2018;
following capacities:
Chairman of the Board of Directors of the • Board Member of St. George’s House
• Director of the Public Pension Agency, since General Authority of Civil Aviation, Public Windsor from 2011 to 2017;
2020; Transport Authority, Saudi Ports Authority,
• Chairman of Hermes Equity Ownership
• Chairman of the Investment and the Audit Saudi Railways Organization and Saudi
Services from 2007 to 2016;
Committees of the RCMC Board, since 2019; Railways Company from 2017 to 2019;
• Director of Accenture Plc, a general partner
• Chairman of the Investment Committee of • Member of the Council of Economic and
of Accenture SCA, from 2001 to 2015;
the PIF Board, since 2019; Development Affairs from 2017 to 2019;
• Chairman of Anglo American from 2002 to
• Chairman of the Center for the National • Director of the Saudi Center for the Strategic
2009; and
Transformation Program, since 2017; International Partnerships during 2019;
• Chairman of Royal Dutch Shell from 1998
• Supervisor of the National Risk Unit at the • President of Saudi Ports Authority from 2015
to 2001.
Royal Court, since 2017; and to 2017;
• Chairman of the Executive Committee of the • Director of Hapag Lloyd AG in 2017;
Sir Mark earned a B.A. in Natural Sciences from
NDF, since 2017. • Chairman of the United Arab Shipping Cambridge University in 1963 and a Ph.D. in
Company until its merger with Hapag Geology from Cambridge University in 1966.
H.E. Al-Tuwaijri has also served in the following Lloyd AG, from 2015 to 2017; He also received an Honorary Doctorate in
capacities: • Chairman of the Saudi Electronic Info Business Administration from Robert Gordon
• Minister of Economy and Planning of the Exchange Company, Tabadul, from 2016 University, Aberdeen in 2000, an Honorary
Kingdom; Member of the Council of to 2017; Doctorate of Law from the University of
Ministers; Chairman of the Standing • President of Aramco Services Company Aberdeen in 2004, and an Honorary Doctorate
Committee of CEDA; Chairman of the Board from 2013 to 2015; and of Science from Royal Holloway University of
of Directors of the National Project London in 2007.
• President of Saudi Refining Inc. from 2012
Management, Operation and Maintenance
to 2013.
Organization (Mashroat), and the General
Mr. Andrew N. Liveris
Authority for Statistics; Secretary General
Previously, H.E. Al-Amudi was an employee of
of the National Center for Performance the Company, joining in 1995, during which he Director
Measurement “Adaa”; and Director of Saudi
held a series of positions progressing through
Arabian Airlines from 2017 to 2020; Mr. Andrew N. Liveris, 66, has served as an
various areas of the Company.
independent Director of the Company since
• Chairman of the National Center for
2018. Currently, Mr. Liveris serves as Chairman
Privatization & PPP from 2019 to 2020; H.E. Al-Amudi obtained a J.D. from Harvard
of the Board of Lucid Motors, Deputy Chairman
• Chairman of the National Center for Law School in 2001 and a B.S. in Chemical
of the Board of Worley Parsons and a Director
Strategic Development Studies from 2016 Engineering from Stanford University in 1995.
on the Boards of IBM Corporation and Novonix.
to 2020; H.E. Al-Amudi is a 2009 graduate of Stanford’s
He also serves as the Chairman of the Blackrock
• Director of the Saudi Authority for Data and Graduate School of Business Executive Program Long Term Private Capital Operating
Artificial Intelligence from 2019 to 2020; and is a member of the New York State Bar Committee and on the Board of Trustees of
Association. He was elected as a Young Global
• Director of the Royal Authority for the City KAUST, the Saudi Foundation Hevolution,
Leader by the World Economic Forum in 2014.
of Riyadh from 2019 to 2020; and of the Australian Foundation Minderoo.
He is an advisor to Teneo and the PIF and a
• Director of the National Information Center
member of the Advisory Board of Sumitomo
from 2018 to 2020;
Mitsui Banking Corporation (SMBC), NEOM and
• Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Salesforce.com.
of HSBC Middle East, North Africa and
Turkey; Regional Head of Global Banking & Mr. Liveris has also served in the following
Markets, HSBC MENA from 2010 to 2016; capacities:
and
• Executive Chairman on the Board of
• Managing Director and Chief Executive DowDuPont Inc. from 2017 to 2018; and
Officer of J.P. Morgan Saudi Arabia from
• Chairman, President and CEO of The Dow
2007 to 2010.
Chemical Company from 2006 to 2018.
H.E. Al-Tuwaijri earned a B.A. from the Royal
Saudi Air Force in 1986 and an MBA from King
Saud University in 1998.
[Page 113]
111
Mr. Liveris obtained a B.S. in Chemical Mr. Mark A. Weinberger Mr. Amin H. Nasser
Engineering from the University of Queensland
Director Director, President and Chief Executive
in 1976, graduating with first class honors
and awarded the University Medal. He was Mr. Mark A. Weinberger, 59, has served as an Officer
awarded an honorary doctorate in Engineering independent Director of the Company since
from Michigan State University in 2015 and 2020. Currently, Mr. Weinberger serves on the Mr. Amin H. Nasser, 62, has served as the
an honorary doctorate in Science from the Board of Directors of Metlife, Inc. and Johnson President and CEO of the Company since 2015.
University of Queensland in 2005. & Johnson. He is a Member on the Board of Mr. Nasser has been a Director since 2010.
Currently, Mr. Nasser is a member of the
Trustees for the United States Council for
International Advisory Board of KFUPM, Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans International Business, Greater Washington the Board of Trustees of KAUST, the World
Partnership, The Concord Coalition, Emory
Economic Forum’s International Business
Director University and Case Western Reserve Council, the International Advisory Board of
University. He is a Strategic Advisor to the
Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans, 64, has served the Society of Petroleum Engineers, the
Board of FCLTGlobal. He is a Senior Advisor to
as an independent Director of the Company Presidential CEO Advisory Board at
Chief Executives for Corporate Purpose, Stone since 2018. Currently, Ms. Elsenhans serves as Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the
Canyon Industries Holdings and Teneo. He is an
a Director on the Boards of Baker Hughes JP Morgan International Council and a Director
Executive Advisor to G100 and World 50. Mr.
Company and GlaxoSmithKline PLC. of the Dhahran Techno Valley Company.
Weinberger is on the CEO Advisory Council of
JUST Capital Foundation, Inc. In addition, he
Ms. Elsenhans has also served in the following Prior to serving as President and CEO,
sits on the Board of Directors of the National
capacities: Mr. Nasser served in a number of leadership
Bureau of Economic Research and is a member positions at the Company, including as Senior
• Director of Baker Hughes, a GE Company of the Economic Strategy Group, a program of
Vice President of Upstream from 2007 to
from 2017 to 2019; the Aspen Institute.
2015 and VP of Petroleum Engineering and
• Director of Baker Hughes Inc. from 2012 to Development from 2006 to 2007.
2017; Mr. Weinberger has also served in the
following capacities:
• Director of Flowserve Corporation from 2014 Mr. Nasser obtained a B.S. in Petroleum
to 2017; • Global Chairman and CEO of Ernst & Young Engineering from KFUPM in 1982. He also
• Director of International Paper Company (EY) from 2013 to 2019 and a Director completed the Senior Executive Program at
from 2007 to 2012; since 2000, during which time he held Columbia University in 2002, the Saudi Aramco
a series of roles; Global Business Program in 2000 and the Saudi
• President and CEO of Sunoco, Inc. from 2008
• Director on the Board of U.S. Business Aramco Management Development Seminar in
to 2012, becoming Chairwoman in 2009;
Roundtable from 2014 to 2019; Washington, D.C. in 1999.
and
• Director on the Board of Catalyst, Inc. from
• Chairwoman of Sunoco Logistics Partners
2013 to 2019;
from 2008 to 2012, becoming CEO in 2010.
• Co-Founder and Principal of Washington
Counsel, P.C. (acquired by EY) from 1996
Ms. Elsenhans obtained a B.A. in Applied
to 2000; and
Mathematics from Rice University in 1978 and
an MBA from Harvard University in 1980. • Partner at Oldaker, Ryan & Leonard from
1995 to 1996.
Mr. Peter L. Cella
Mr. Weinberger has also served the U.S.
Director government in the following capacities:
• Member of the President’s Strategic and
Mr. Peter L. Cella, 63, has served as an
Policy Forum under President Trump in 2017;
independent Director of the Company since
2018. Currently, Mr. Cella serves as a Director • Member of the President’s Infrastructure
on the Boards of Frontdoor, Inc., Inter Pipeline Task Force under President Obama from
and ClockSpring|NRI. 2015 to 2016;
• Assistant Secretary of the U.S. Department
Mr. Cella has also served in the following of Treasury (Tax Policy) in 2001 and 2002;
capacities: • Member of the Social Security
• Director of ServiceMaster Global Holdings Administration Advisory Board (appointed
from 2017 to 2018; by President Clinton) in 2000;
• President and CEO and as a Director of • Chief of Staff to U.S. President Bill Clinton’s
Chevron Phillips Chemical Company from Bipartisan Commission on Entitlement and
2011 to 2017; Tax Reform in 1994; and
• Director of the American Chemistry Council • Chief Tax and Budget Counsel, U.S. Senate
from 2011 to 2017; to Senator John C. Danforth (R-Missouri)
• Director of Junior Achievement of Southeast from 1991 to 1994.
Texas from 2011 to 2017; and
• Senior Vice President for North America Mr. Weinberger obtained a B.A. in Economics
Petrochemicals for BASF Corporation from from Emory University in 1983. He also earned
2006 to 2011. an MBA and a J.D. from Case Western Reserve
University in 1987, and an L.L.M. in Taxation
Mr. Cella obtained a B.S. degree in Finance from Georgetown University Law Center in
from the University of Illinois at Urbana- 1991. He has an honorary doctorate from the
Champaign in 1979 and an MBA from Kogod School of Business at American
Northwestern University in 1981. University in Washington, DC.
ecnanrevog
etaroproC
| 0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 115]
113
Mr. Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh Mr. Mohammed Y. Al-Qahtani Mr. Abdulaziz M. Al-Gudaimi
Senior Vice President, Finance, Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President,
Strategy and Development Downstream Corporate Development
Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh was appointed Senior Mohammed Y. Al-Qahtani was appointed Abdulaziz M. Al-Gudaimi was appointed Senior
Vice President of Finance, Strategy and Senior Vice President of Downstream, effective Vice President of Corporate Development
Development by the Company’s Board of September 13, 2020, having led Upstream as on September 13, 2020, following serving
Directors, effective September 1, 2018, after Senior Vice President since January 2016. as Senior Vice President of Downstream from
several months of covering the role on an May 2017. Before that appointment, he had
acting basis. Mr. Al-Qahtani joined Aramco in 1983. served as acting Business Line Head for the
After completing the Company’s in-Kingdom business line. He had previously served as
Mr. Al-Dabbagh had been the company’s College Degree Program, he became a Vice President, Power Systems, an assignment
Financial Controller since January 2012. He was Petroleum Engineer in ‘Udhailiyah Gas he assumed in September 2014.
responsible for Aramco’s global accounting Reservoir Management in 1988.
activities, issuance of the annual financial Prior to that, Mr. Al-Gudaimi held similar
report and the maintenance of an effective Mr. Al-Qahtani has held a number of leadership positions with Corporate Planning,
framework of internal controls. He provided managerial and supervisory roles within the Chemicals and New Business Development.
business intelligence and advisory services, company. He served as Manager, Production He was appointed Vice President, Northern
and was responsible for developing and & Facilities Development and Reservoir Area Oil Operations (NAOO), in April 2007,
maintaining corporate performance programs. Description & Simulation before being named after being elevated to Executive Director of
Mr. Al-Dabbagh also oversaw the annual President & CEO of Aramco Services Company NAOO in September 2006.
operating and capital budgeting processes, in 2007. He went on to become the company’s
and the evaluation of proposed investments Chief Petroleum Engineer, then served as From April 2004 to September 2006,
by the company. Executive Director and Vice President of Mr. Al-Gudaimi was President & CEO of
Petroleum Engineering & Development. Arabian Gulf Operations Co. Ltd. in Al-Khafji.
In October 2010, Mr. Al-Dabbagh was
appointed Treasurer after serving as the acting Between 2013 and 2016, Mr. Al-Qahtani was He joined the company in January 1994,
executive head of Treasury since February Vice President of Saudi Aramco Affairs and following the merger of the Saudi Arabian
2010. From September 2008, he was the Strategy & Market Analysis, as well as Marketing and Refining Co. (SAMAREC)
Manager of the Business Analysis Department, completing an assignment as the acting Service with Aramco.
with Strategy & Marketing Analysis. Prior to Line Head of Operations & Business Services.
that, Mr. Al-Dabbagh was the acting Executive Mr. Al-Gudaimi began working for SAMAREC
Director of Marketing, Supply and Joint He holds Ph.D. (1996) and M.S. (1992) degrees in 1983 at Riyadh Refinery, after graduating
Venture Coordination. Previous positions he in Petroleum Engineering from the University from King Fahd University of Petroleum and
held included Manager of Aramco’s Crude Oil of Southern California, and a B.S. degree Minerals with a B.S. degree in Petroleum
Sales and Marketing; Director of Joint Venture (1988) in the same discipline from King Fahd Engineering. He later obtained an M.S. degree
Development and Support; President and CEO University of Petroleum and Minerals. in Business Administration from Massachusetts
of Saudi Petroleum International Inc. in New Institute of Technology’s Sloan School of
York; and Managing Director of Saudi Mr. Al-Qahtani is Chairman of the Board of Management, in 2001.
Petroleum Limited in Tokyo. the Saudi Aramco Jubail Refinery Company
(SASREF), and the Energy City Development Mr. Al-Gudaimi served as Superintendent of
Currently Mr. Al-Dabbagh serves as Chairman Company (ECDC). the Berri Gas Plant Maintenance and Berri Gas
of the Board of SABIC, Saudi Aramco Plant Engineering divisions before taking an
Development Company (SADCO) and the He previously chaired the Board of Directors for assignment with Northern Area Producing
Wisayah Investment Management Company. Aramco Services Company and served on the Engineering Department, eventually becoming
In addition, he represents the Company on Board of Directors for LUKOIL Saudi Arabia Manager in November 1997.
the Board of Governors of the GCC Board Energy Ltd., the Saudi Council of Engineers, the
Directors Institute. Arabian Geophysical and Surveying Company From 1998 to 2003, he held management
Ltd., and the Society of Petroleum Engineers positions with Berri Gas Plant, Shaybah
Mr. Al-Dabbagh has also previously served as a International. Producing, Ras Tanura Producing, Gas Ventures
Board Director with Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K., Development and Rabigh Project Execution. In
Sadara Chemical Company, ARLANXEO Mr. Al-Qahtani has served as Senior Vice September 2006, he was named Executive
Holding B.V., Fujian Refining and Petrochemical President of Downstream since 2020. Currently, Director, NAOO, until his appointment to Vice
Company, Saudi Aramco Base Oil Company Mr. Al-Qahtani serves as Chairman of the President in April 2007.
(Luberef), the Arab Petroleum Pipeline Dhahran Techno Valley Advisory Board and
Company (Sumed), and Vice Chairman of University of Hafr Al-Batin Advisory Board. Mr. Al-Gudaimi is the Chairman of the Board
Sinopec SenMei Products Company. He has also In addition, he serves as a member of the for the Saudi Aramco Total Refining &
been a Board Member of Saudi Aramco Energy Board of the Bilateral U.S.-Arab Chamber of Petrochemical Company (SATORP), the Aramco
Ventures, the Saudi Aramco Entrepreneurship Commerce. Mr. Al-Qahtani is also a member Trading Company (ATC), Motiva Enterprises
Center and Pengerang Refining and of the College of Petroleum Engineering and LLC, ARLANXEO Holding B.V., and Saudi
Petrochemical (PrefChem). He also served as a Geosciences oversight committee at KFUPM. Aramco Asia Company Ltd. (SAAC). He is also
Board member of Aramco Trading Company on the Board of Directors of S-Oil.
(ATC) and the Chairman of its Board Audit
Committee.
Mr. Al-Dabbagh earned a bachelor's degree
in Industrial Engineering from the University
of Toledo. He has completed a number of
executive leadership programs, including
the Senior Executive Program at London
Business School.
ecnanrevog
etaroproC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 116]
114
Mr. Ahmad A. Al-Sa’adi Mr. Nabeel A. Al-Mansour Mr. Nabeel A. Al-Jama'
Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President,
Technical Services General Counsel and Corporate Secretary Human Resources and Corporate Services
Ahmad A. Al-Sa’adi was appointed Senior Nabeel A. Al-Mansour was appointed to the Nabeel A. Al-Jama’ was appointed Senior Vice
Vice President of Technical Services, effective position of General Counsel and Corporate President of the newly established Human
January 2016, after previously serving as Secretary in May 2016. In 2017, Mr. Al-Mansour Resources and Corporate Services (HR&CS)
the acting Service Line Head for the was additionally appointed as Senior Vice service line effective July 1, 2020, following his
organization. President. service as Vice President of Corporate Affairs, a
position he held since 2018.
In his role, Mr. Al-Sa’adi heads Aramco’s Mr. Al-Mansour began his career with the
Engineering Services, Project Management, company in 1988 as a participant in the College He was previously Vice President of Human
Information Technology, and Procurement Degree Program for Non-Employees, earning a Resources from November 2017, after serving
& Supply Chain Management. He also oversees B.S. degree in Systems Engineering from King in the Office of the Minister of Energy, Industry
the direction of corporate environmental and Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals in and Mineral Resources since June 2016.
occupational health policies and provides 1990.
guidance to management as to the impact of Mr. Al-Jama’ had previously been appointed
environmental trends. Following participation in the Information Vice President, Pipelines, Distribution &
Technology Professional Development Program Terminals in May 2015.
In July 2010, Mr. Al-Sa’adi became Vice and assignments with Engineering Services,
President, Gas Operations — headquartered in he was selected in 1996 for the company’s Prior to that, Mr. Al-Jama’ had been Executive
‘Udhailiyah — and led a complex organization Out-of-Kingdom Law Degree Program — Director, Industrial Services, from January 2012
that consisted of seven gas processing centers. through which he earned his Juris Doctor to January 2015.
degree with honors in Law from Oklahoma
Prior to this, he was Vice President of Pipelines, University in the U.S. He started with Aramco in 1980 in the Home
Distribution & Terminals, responsible for the Ownership Division, after which he joined the
transportation of oil, gas, and domestic fuel After completion of the bar exam and working Company’s College Degree Program, earning a
distribution through bulk plants and air fueling for a leading U.S. law firm in New York, Mr. B.S. degree in 1985 and then an M.S. degree in
units, and the Kingdom’s crude exports Al-Mansour returned to the Kingdom in 2000 1998 — both in Community & Regional
through terminals. and joined the Saudi Aramco Law Planning from King Fahd University of
Organization, where he held a number of Petroleum and Minerals.
Mr. Al-Sa’adi held the position of Chief positions of increasing scope and responsibility.
Engineer of Saudi Aramco, and prior to that, He led the Aramco legal team that supported Mr. Al-Jama’ returned to the Home Ownership
he was President & CEO of the Aramco Gulf the development of Sadara Chemicals, and he Division in 1985, where he became Supervisor
Operations Company (AGOC), and Chairman led a number of legal teams in connection with of the Home Ownership Unit in 1993 after
of the AGOC Executive Committee, providing oil and gas concessions and other investment serving in a variety of administrative roles.
policy and direction to Al-Khafji Joint agreements including participating in In 1998, Mr. Al-Jama’ became Director of Saudi
Operations. negotiations with various international oil Aramco Built Government Schools before
companies (IOCs) for significant investments in taking on the role of Administrator, Home
He has served professionally, and in a Saudi Arabia’s non-associated gas sector. Ownership & Community Development, in
supervisory capacity, domestically and He also served as Corporate Secretary to a September 2000. In February 2002, he became
internationally, over a multitude of number of joint venture companies established Manager, Central Community Services.
engineering, refining, and project by Aramco and IOCs.
management fields. During that time, he completed several
Mr. Al-Mansour served as Associate General assignments in diverse organizations within
Mr. Al-Sa’adi is the Chairman of the Sadara Counsel from April 2011 to February 2014, Employee Relations & Training and the Central
Chemical Company, Saudi Aramco Mobil championing a multi-year strategic program in Community Services Department, as well as
Refinery (SAMREF), and the International the Law Organization, which led to roles as acting General Manager of Medical
Maritime Industries Company (IMIC). He also transforming it into a best-in-class international Operations, acting Personnel Director, and
serves as a Shareholder Representative for legal organization. He was also responsible for acting Executive Director, Community,
the Saudi Arabian Industrial Investment overseeing multiple legal practice areas Buildings & Office Services.
Company. including litigation, international trade, and
project development and finance. Mr. Al-Jama’ was elevated to General Manager,
Mr. Al-Sa’adi joined Aramco in 1981 after Training & Career Development, in 2006 before
earning a B.S. degree in Chemical Engineering In February 2014, he was appointed Executive being assigned acting Executive Director,
from King Fahd University of Petroleum and Director of Procurement & Supply Chain Community Services, in 2008. He was
Minerals. Management, overseeing the corporate supply permanently assigned as Executive Director,
chain, contracting activities, and Aramco’s Community Services, in 2009, and in 2012, he
global materials logistics operations. He was moved to Industrial Services. In February 2015,
named Vice President of that organization in Mr. Al-Jama’ transferred to Pipelines,
May 2015 and then, in October 2015, was Distribution & Terminals.
appointed Deputy General Counsel in Law.
[Page 117]
115
Mr. Nasir K. Al-Naimi
Acting Business Line Head,
Upstream
Nasir K. Al-Naimi was named acting Business
Line Head of Upstream for Aramco, in
September 2020, after being appointed Vice
President, Petroleum Engineering &
Development for Aramco, in September 2016.
He had previously served as Vice President,
Northern Area Oil Operations, an assignment
he assumed in May 2012.
Mr. Al-Naimi joined the company in 1980
as an Engineering Aide in the Planning &
Administration Services Division. He received
a B.S. degree in Petroleum Engineering from
the University of Southern California in 1985.
Upon his return, he joined Petroleum
Engineering’s Professional Development
Program, working in Zuluf, Marjan and
Manifa Production before moving to
Safaniyah Producing Operations in 1993
as Senior Operations Adviser.
Between 1994 and 1997, Mr. Al-Naimi was
Superintendent of Oil Operations for Zuluf
Offshore Producing Operations, Northern
Area Producing Well Services and Abu Ali
Producing Operations. In 1997, he began
working with Crude Oil Sales & Marketing
and Product Sales & Marketing, where
Mr. Al-Naimi worked until 2000, when he
became Senior Marketing Manager of
Gasoline Distillates & Sulfur Marketing.
Mr. Al-Naimi also undertook several
assignments as Manager of Product Sales
& Marketing until December 2001, when he
became Manager of Marketing Services for
Saudi Petroleum International Inc. in New
York. He returned in 2003 as Manager of
the Marine Department before moving to
Manager, Mechanical Services Shops,
in 2004.
In 2007, he was made Manager, Terminals,
and took on several acting assignments
as Executive Director of Industrial Services.
In 2009, he was named General Manager
of Southern Area Producing, before being
elevated to Executive Director, Pipelines,
Distribution & Terminals in 2010.
ecnanrevog
etaroproC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 118]
116
Board structure
The Board comprises 11 Directors elected minimum requirements of applicable laws Following the formation of the Board,
by an ordinary general assembly and regulations in the Kingdom. The the Council of Ministers issued Resolution
convened in accordance with the Bylaws, current Board was formed by virtue of No. 8, dated 4/1/1441H (corresponding
except that, pursuant to the Bylaws, the Council of Ministers Resolution No. 180, to September 3, 2019) appointing
President and Chief Executive Officer has dated 1/4/1439H (corresponding to H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan as the
a permanent membership on the Board December 19, 2017). This Council of Chairman of the Board and H.E. Nabeel
without being subject to election or any Ministers Resolution states that M. Al-Amudi as a Director on the Board.
further action by the general assembly. notwithstanding the provisions of the
The Capital Markets Law, Companies Law, Bylaws, the first Board shall be formed On March 19, 2020, Mr. Gould resigned
including any applicable regulations, the by a Council of Ministers resolution based from his position as a member of the
Bylaws and the internal governance on the recommendation of the Minister Board and Chair of the Audit Committee.
regulations of the Company determine of MEIM (predecessor to the Ministry On March 31, 2020, Mr. Mark A.
the duties and responsibilities of the of Energy) until such time that a Board Weinberger was appointed to the Board
Board. The term of a Director is for a is formed pursuant to the provisions of as an independent director pursuant to
period not to exceed three years, subject the Bylaws. As such, the Council of Council of Ministers Resolution No. 492,
to renewal or extension. There is no limit Ministers issued Resolution No. 428, dated 7/8/1441H (corresponding to March
on the number of terms that a Director dated 8/8/1439H (corresponding to 31, 2020), to serve Mr. Gould’s remaining
may serve on the Board. April 24, 2018) appointing the Board term with the Board.
and designating the following five Board
The Company’s Bylaws set forth members as independent directors: There are no existing conflicts of interest
requirements concerning the composition Mr. Moody-Stuart, Mr. Liveris, Mr. Gould, between any duties of any Director
of its Board, including that the number of Ms. Elsenhans, and Mr. Cella. toward the Company and the Director’s
independent directors must satisfy the private interests and/or other duties. The
business address of each Director is the
registered address of the Company.
1
Overview of the Board
Independence Tenure Nationality Director Age
Average Tenure Average
5.6 Years Age 61
5 Non-executive Director 8 1-5 6 Saudi Arabia 1 40-50
Independent
5
Non-executive Director
1 6-10 3 USA 2 51-55
1 Executive Director 2 11+ 1 UK 2 56-60
1 Australia 3 61-65
1 . All Board statistics are as of March 21, 2021. 3 66+
[Page 119]
117
Board responsibilities Board diversity and composition When identifying prospective candidates
for the Board, the Nomination Committee
The Company is supervised by a Board The Board values diversity of talent, skills,
considers the criteria described above and
consisting of professional and highly viewpoints and experience and believes
seeks individuals with successful
experienced persons. The Board is vested that Board diversity of all types enhances
leadership experience who have achieved
with full powers to manage the business the performance of the Board and
prominence in their primary fields and
of the Company and supervise its affairs. provides significant benefits to the
whose background demonstrates an
The Board delegates authority to four Company. Accordingly, the Nomination
understanding of business affairs as well
committees which report to the Board, Committee takes into account the diversity
as the complexities of a large, publicly consisting of the Audit Committee, the of the Board with respect to these
listed company. In addition, candidates
Risk and HSE Committee, the Nomination categories when reviewing its
must have demonstrated an ability to
Committee, and the Compensation composition as well as when identifying
think strategically and make decisions
Committee. In addition, the Board has the new Director candidates.
with a forward-looking focus, as well
power to form any number of committees
as the ability to assimilate relevant
it deems necessary for effective In its assessment of the Board’s
information on a broad range of complex
governance, oversight and operations of composition, the Nomination Committee
topics. Moreover, candidates must have
the Company or to delegate all or some also considers each Director’s professional
the ability to devote the time necessary
of its authorities to any person or Board experience, integrity, honesty, judgment,
to meet a Director’s responsibilities.
committee. KPIs help the Board and independence, accountability, willingness
executive management measure to express independent thought,
The following table summarizes certain
performance against the Company’s understanding of the Company’s business
key characteristics of the Company’s
strategic priorities and business plans and other factors that the Nomination
businesses and the associated
across a wide range of measures and Committee determines are pertinent in
qualifications, skills and experience that
indicators. The Board periodically reviews light of the current needs of the Board.
the Nomination Committee believes
such metrics and tests their relevance to The Nomination Committee also considers
should be, and are currently, represented
the Company’s strategy. each Director’s key skills and experience
on the Board.
in light of the Company’s strategy.
ecnanrevog
etaroproC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
Business characteristics Qualifications, skills and experience
• The Company is a complex, globally integrated energy and • Energy industry experience
chemicals company with products sold around the world.
• Broad international exposure
• The Company’s businesses are impacted by regulatory • Government and international trade experience
requirements and policies of various governmental entities
around the world.
• The Company’s business is multifaceted and includes operations, • Expertise in audit, tax and global finance
transactions and partnerships in many jurisdictions.
• Global business leadership, knowledge and experience
• Technology and innovation add significant value to the • Engineering, technology, manufacturing and/or other technical
Company's operations. knowledge and experience
• The Company’s customers are diverse and located in many • Diversity of race, ethnicity, gender, cultural background or
countries around the world. professional experience
• Demand for many of the Company’s products is directly tied to • Experience in the evaluation of global economic conditions
global economic conditions and is heavily influenced by global
• Knowledge of key global markets, including commodity, energy
commodity, energy, construction and transportation markets.
and transportation markets
• The Board’s responsibilities include understanding and • Risk oversight/management expertise
overseeing the various risks facing the Company and ensuring
• Executive and/or other significant leadership experience
that appropriate policies and procedures are in place to
effectively manage these risks.
[Page 120]
118
Board evaluations
With respect to the means used by the Board to assess its performance and the performance of its Committees and members,
the Nomination Committee oversaw the Company’s engagement with Egon Zehnder, a third party consultant, to conduct
an assessment of the Board and its Committees in 2020. Egon Zehnder also provides Director search services to the Company.
Board meeting attendance
In 2020 there were five (5) Board meetings. There were no meeting attendances by proxy during 2020. Below is a record of attendance
at these meetings for each Board member.
2020 Board Meeting Attendance
Members Mar 12 May 11 Aug 7 Nov 2 Dec 14
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan, Chairman • • • • •
H.E. Dr. Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf, Deputy Chairman • • • • •
H.E. Mohammed A. Al-Jadaan • • • • •
H.E. Mohammad M. Al-Tuwaijri • • • • •
H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi • • • • •
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart • • • • •
Mr. Andrew N. Liveris • • • • •
Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans • • • • •
Mr. Peter L. Cella • • • • •
Mr. Mark A. Weinberger1 n/a • • • •
Mr. Andrew F. J. Gould2 – n/a n/a n/a n/a
Mr. Amin H. Nasser • • • • •
1. Mr. Mark A. Weinberger was appointed as a member of the Board on March 31, 2020.
2. Mr. Andrew F. J. Gould departed from the Board and its Committees on March 19, 2020.
[Page 121]
119
Shareholder engagement
On May 11, 2020, the Company held its
Management of the Company
first ordinary annual general assembly
meeting (AGM) as a publicly listed
company. The meeting was held virtually.
All Board members attended the AGM
and the following items were voted upon, Board
and approved by, the shareholders:
(i) the 2019 Board of Directors’ Report;
and (ii) the appointment of the external
Audit Risk and HSE Nomination Compensation
auditor for the Company and
Committee Committee Committee Committee
determination of their fees.
The Company’s shareholders play an
integral role in the Company’s overall
governance framework. Pursuant to the
CMA’s Corporate Governance Regulations,
members of the Board are required to
Senior Executives
attend the Company’s general assembly
meetings. At such meetings, shareholders
can provide their suggestions and remarks
to the members of the Board.
Board committees
To optimize the management of the
Company, the following committees of
the Board were established by the Board:
(i) the Audit Committee; (ii) the Risk and
HSE Committee; (iii) the Nomination
Committee; and (iv) the Compensation
Committee.
All Board Committees have their
respective charters that identify each
Committee’s roles, powers, and
responsibilities. Separate minutes are
prepared for each Committee meeting.
ecnanrevog
etaroproC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 122]
120
Audit Committee report
2020 Audit Committee meeting attendance
Members Mar 11 May 10 Aug 6 Nov 1
Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans, Chair1 • • • •
H.E. Mohammed A. Al-Jadaan • • • •
H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi • • • •
Mr. Peter L. Cella • • • •
Mr. Mark A. Weinberger2 n/a • • •
Mr. Andrew F.J. Gould3 – n/a n/a n/a
1. Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans was appointed as Chair of the Audit Committee on April 14, 2020.
2. Mr. Mark A. Weinberger was appointed as a member of the Audit Committee on April 14, 2020.
3. Mr. Andrew F. J. Gould departed from the Board and its Committees on March 19, 2020.
The primary role of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee met four (4) times in The Audit Committee continues to engage
is to monitor the Company’s affairs and 2020. In March, Mr. Andrew Gould with:
assist the Board and its Directors with departed from the Board and its
• management for the preparation and
oversight of the financial reporting and Committees with Mr. Mark Weinberger
accuracy of the Company’s
disclosure process, including oversight of: replacing him as a member of the Audit
consolidated financial statements;
Committee on April 14, 2020.
• the integrity, effectiveness and
• management for the establishment of
accuracy of the Company’s
To enable the Audit Committee to fulfill effective internal controls and
consolidated financial statements and
its role, duties and objectives, the relevant procedures to ensure the Company’s
reports, and the performance,
key Company stakeholders and members compliance with accounting standards,
soundness and effectiveness of the
of management participated in each of financial reporting procedures and
Company’s internal controls, audit,
the Audit Committee meetings held in applicable laws and regulations;
financial reporting, and financial risk
2020, including the Company’s external
management systems; • the General Auditor for support in
auditor, General Auditor (internal auditor),
discharging the Audit Committee’s
• the qualifications and performance Controller, and Senior Vice President of
responsibilities with respect to risk
of the Company’s internal auditor; Finance, Strategy and Development.
management, financial reporting
• the qualifications, independence, processes, systems of internal control,
Key stakeholders and various members
and performance of the Company’s and compliance with legal and
of management presented and provided
independent external auditor; and regulatory requirements; and
input to the Audit Committee on certain
• the Company’s compliance with legal matters including the integrity, • the external auditor in connection
and regulatory requirements. effectiveness and accuracy of the with the external auditor’s annual
Company’s consolidated financial audit and quarterly review,
statements and reports, and the as applicable, of the consolidated
performance, soundness and financial statements.
effectiveness of the Company’s internal
controls, audit, financial reporting and
financial risk management.
[Page 123]
121
Based on input and presentations from The Company’s General Auditor was In 2019, when recommending the
relevant key stakeholders and members present at each of the Audit Committee appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers
of management, the Audit Committee meetings held in 2020. As part of his (PwC) as the external auditor for 2020, the
endorsed several items in 2020 for Board presentations to the Audit Committee, Audit Committee authorized management
approval, including: the General Auditor reported on the to engage PwC to perform certain limited
Company’s internal auditing activities other services, to ensure they, as external
• the 2019 Annual Report;
undertaken during the year. As part of auditor, remain independent under the
• the 2019 consolidated audited financial the Audit Committee’s review of the 2021 Saudi Organization for Certified Public
statements; global internal audit plan, the Audit Accountants (SOCPA) standards and
Committee ensured that the plan is under guidance issued by the
• the 2020 condensed consolidated
aligned with the key risks of the business. International Federation of Accountants.
interim (quarterly) financial reports;
The principal other services provided
and
Financial reporting and external audit by the external auditor in 2020 related
• the recommendation for the nomination Two of the Audit Committee’s key to tax compliance.
of the Company’s external auditor for responsibilities are to monitor the
the ten-year period from 2021 to 2030, integrity of the financial statements After undergoing an extensive tender
subject to shareholder selection. and to assess the effectiveness of the and review process, open to the major
external auditor. auditing firms, the Audit Committee
Further, the Audit Committee evaluated recommended the Board nominate
and received reports on various key issues The Audit Committee has assessed that PwC and Ernst & Young (EY) as the
including: appropriate accounting policies have Company’s external auditor for final
been adopted throughout the selection by the shareholders at the
• a summary of the Company’s internal
accounting period and that 2021 AGM. The Audit Committee also
auditing activities in 2019, covering
management has made reasonable recommended the external auditor be
areas such as assurance activities,
estimates and judgments over the appointed for the ten-year period from
advisory engagements, fraud risk
recognition, measurement, and 2021-2030 and until reappointed or
management, and certain key
presentation of the financial results. replaced by the shareholders at, or prior
initiatives taken during the year;
to, the 2031 AGM. The Audit Committee
• quarterly reports on the Company’s At each of the Audit Committee’s approved the engagement letters with
ongoing internal auditing activities in meetings in 2020 there were extensive PwC and EY, setting out the terms and
2020; reports and discussions with the external conditions for their service in 2021.
auditor and members of management
• a review of the Company’s financial risk
regarding the financial statements, If PwC is re-appointed, the current global
management activities;
including detailed analysis of the financial engagement audit partner will continue
• the activities of the Company’s Conflict performance and changes in the financial to act until the conclusion of the fiscal
of Interest and Business Ethics position of the Company, the process to year-end 2023 audit, subject to
Committee; prepare the final financial statements and satisfactory performance and continued
the related independent review by the engagement of PwC, as external auditor.
• the financial performance in 2019 of
external auditor for the first, second and
the investments to fund the Company’s
third quarters of the year. At the final Internal controls
benefit plans;
meeting of the fiscal year, held on The Audit Committee is responsible
• a review of related party transactions; November 1, 2020, the external auditor for reviewing the adequacy and
presented to the Audit Committee effectiveness of the Company’s internal
• a report on the Company’s Enterprise
members the 2020 External Audit Plan control and financial risk management
Tax Risk Management Framework;
reviewing the process they would systems. During the course of the year,
• a report from the Corporate undertake to complete the audit of the the Audit Committee has considered
Compliance Department on managing 2020 annual financial statements. Also at various material controls, including
enterprise-wide regulatory compliance this meeting, the Audit Committee financial, operational and compliance
risks through a global compliance reviewed the external auditor’s controls, and the Audit Committee
framework; and performance and independence for 2020 is of the opinion that the Company’s
and did not identify any deficiencies. internal and financial control systems
• the Company’s 2021 global internal
and risk management systems are
audit plan, including the related plan
effective and adequate.
development approach and process.
ecnanrevog
etaroproC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 124]
122
Risk and HSE Committee report
2020 Risk and HSE Committee meeting attendance
Members Mar 11 May 10 Aug 6 Nov 1
Mr. Peter L. Cella, Chair • • • •
H.E. Mohammad M. Al-Tuwaijri – • – •
H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi • • • •
Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans • • • •
Mr. Amin H. Nasser • • • •
The primary role of the Risk and HSE inefficiency that included a review of The Risk and HSE Committee continues
Committee is to monitor the Company’s relevant processes and cost management to support the Board and the Company
overall management of risk and its and control programs, cyberattacks, by carrying out its duties and
activities relating to health, safety and environmental compliance, market responsibilities that include the following:
the environment (HSE), and to assist the disruption, and mergers and acquisitions.
• reviewing implementation of strategies
Board with:
and policies for operational, strategic,
Further, in 2020, the Risk and HSE
• leadership, direction, and oversight and ESG-related risk management,
Committee reviewed an update to the
with respect to the Company’s risk and the adequacy and effectiveness
Company’s ERM framework that involved
appetite, risk tolerance, risk framework, of the Company's enterprise risk
reviewing the Company’s existing
and risk strategy; management framework;
corporate risks and identifying any
• governance and management of additional top corporate risk(s) that • reviewing the Company’s risk appetite;
strategic, operational, sustainability, would need to be reviewed by the Risk
• reviewing the Company’s operational,
and environmental, social and and HSE Committee. As a result of this
strategic, and ESG-related risks;
governance (ESG) related risks; and review, pandemics were elevated as
a standalone top corporate risk of the • reporting on major strategic risk
• assisting the Board and the Audit
Company. The Committee also exposures and recommending steps to
Committee, to foster a culture within
reviewed the Company’s sustainability manage these risks to the Board; and
the Company that emphasizes and
and ESG reporting framework.
demonstrates the benefits of risk • reviewing the effectiveness of the
management. Company’s policies, programs and
In addition, the Risk and HSE Committee
practices with respect to safety, health,
reviewed the Company’s performance for
The Risk and HSE Committee held four environment, social, and community
the previous fiscal year in 2019 with
(4) meetings in 2020. During the year, relations issues, and making such
respect to safety incidents and with
the Risk and HSE Committee reviewed recommendations to the Board with
respect to certain health, safety, and
and assessed several top corporate risks respect thereto as may be advisable.
environmental metrics and targets. The
that the Company is actively managing,
Risk and HSE Committee also reviewed
along with certain key health, safety, The Risk and HSE Committee also carries
the Company’s quarterly performance for
and environmental matters that impact out the functions and the duties and
the first three (3) quarters in 2020 with
or that could potentially impact the responsibilities of the Risk Management
respect to HSE metrics and targets, along
Company. Specifically, in 2020 the Risk Committee described in the CMA’s
with reviewing proposed HSE corporate
and HSE Committee discussed and Corporate Governance Regulations.
key performance indicator metrics and
evaluated several corporate risks
targets for 2021.
including those relating to climate
change, major industrial incidents, cost
[Page 125]
123
Nomination Committee statement
2020 Nomination Committee meeting attendance
Members Mar 11 Nov 1
Mr. Andrew N. Liveris, Chair • •
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan • •
H.E. Dr. Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf • –
H.E. Mohammad M. Al-Tuwaijri • •
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart • •
The primary role of the Nomination In March 2020, the Nomination With respect to the means used by the
Committee is to lead the process of Committee verified the following Board to assess its performance and
nominating, appointing and evaluating with respect to the Directors that were the performance of its Committees
members of the Company’s Board and to Board members at that time: (i) the and members, the Nomination
ensure the effectiveness of the Board and independence of four (4) independent Committee oversaw the Company’s
the individual Directors. The Nomination Directors, and (ii) the absence of any engagement with Egon Zehnder,
Committee also evaluates and makes conflicts of interest. In addition, the a third party consultant, to conduct
recommendations with respect to the Nomination Committee reviewed the an assessment of the Board and its
structure of the Board and composition Company’s reorganization of its Committees. Egon Zehnder also provides
of the Board’s Committees. Further, Operations & Business Services Service Director search services to the Company.
the Nomination Committee evaluates Line into the HR & Corporate Services
and recommends to the Board the Service Line. In November 2020, the
appointments of individuals (other than Nomination Committee received an
Directors) as Company officers, including update on the procedures for nominating
those proposed to hold the title of Vice Directors for the Company and the
President or higher or that are otherwise timeline for this process leading into the
authorized by virtue of such appointment Company’s 2021 AGM. In addition, the
to bind or act on behalf of the Company. Nomination Committee reviewed the
The Nomination Committee also workshops conducted for the Directors
proposes and makes recommendations in 2020, including panel discussions on
to the Board with respect to the subjects relevant to Aramco and its
Company’s relevant corporate strategy and operations and a compliance
governance practices and procedures. workshop. The Nomination Committee
then reviewed and endorsed proposed
workshops for the Directors in 2021.
Further, the Nomination Committee
reviewed the Company’s oversight of
its Senior Executives, particularly the
Company’s succession planning for
Senior Executives.
ecnanrevog
etaroproC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 126]
124
Compensation Committee statement
2020 Compensation Committee meeting attendance
Members Mar 11 May 10 Aug 6 Nov 1 Dec 13
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, Chair • • • • •
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan • • • • •
H.E. Mohammed A. Al-Jadaan • • • • •
Mr. Andrew N. Liveris • • • • •
Mr. Mark A. Weinberger1 n/a • • • •
Mr. Andrew F.J. Gould2 – n/a n/a n/a n/a
1. Mr. Mark A. Weinberger was appointed as a member of the Compensation Committee on April 14, 2020.
2. Mr. Andrew F. J. Gould departed from the Board and its Committees on March 19, 2020.
The primary role of the Compensation As part of its regular schedule of In addition to regular activities, the
Committee is to oversee the Company’s activities, the Compensation Committee Compensation Committee was informed
policy on compensation and its discussed and evaluated remuneration of Mr. Muhammad Al-Saggaf’s early
implementation. The Compensation policies and decisions applicable to the retirement from the Company, effective
Committee reviews the annual individual Company’s key management personnel, June 30, 2020, following his appointment
compensation plans for Directors and including Directors and Senior Executives. as President of King Fahd University of
Senior Executives. The Compensation The Compensation Committee made Petroleum and Minerals. The
Committee also reviews and approves recommendations to the Board on the Compensation Committee also closely
the annual compensation plans of other annual companywide compensation plan monitored the challenges presented by
Company Executives. and associated budget, and approved the COVID-19 pandemic, and reviewed
Director and Senior Executive the impact on compensation trends and
The Compensation Committee held compensation within the budget employment conditions across the
five (5) meetings in 2020. In March, approved by the Board. The Company’s global group businesses. The
Mr. Andrew Gould departed from the Compensation Committee also reviewed Compensation Committee was provided
Board and its Committees with Mr. Mark and endorsed the performance targets for with reliable, up-to-date, information
Weinberger replacing him as a member use in variable pay plans and determined about compensation decisions and actions
of the Compensation Committee on the overall performance of the Company in peer companies, and supported
April 14, 2020. for compensation purposes. Management’s initiatives related to
efficiency and workforce optimization.
[Page 127]
Compensation and other interests
Compensation policy
The Company has a shareholder-approved policy which aims to ensure that its Directors and Executives are paid in a manner that
promotes sustainable performance and is in the long-term interest of the Company and its shareholders, while attracting, retaining,
and motivating the talent it requires to achieve its business goals.
Board remuneration
Table 1 below sets out the remuneration of Board members consistent with the Company’s compensation policy and Bylaws.
Table 1: 2020 Board remuneration
Fixed remunerations Variable remunerations
All amounts in SAR
tnuoma
cificepS
gnidnetta
rof
ecnawollA
sgniteem
draoB
gnidnetta
rof
ecnawolla
latoT
sgniteem
eettimmoc
stifeneb
dnik-nI
,lacinhcet
rof
noitarenumeR
krow
evitatlusnoc
dna
laireganam
,namriahC
eht
fo
snoitarenumeR
,yraterceS
ro
rotceriD
gniganaM rebmem
a
fi
latoT
stiforp
eht
fo
egatnecreP
noitarenumer
cidoireP
snalp
evitnecni
mret-trohS
snalp
evitnecni
mret-gnoL
)eulav(
serahs
detnarG
latoT
drawa
ecivres-fo-dnE
tnuoma
etagerggA
ecnawolla
sesnepxE
125
Independent Directors
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart 1,125,000 – – 4,778 – – 1,129,778 – – – – – – – 1,129,778 11,250
Mr. Andrew N. Liveris 1,125,000 – – 4,778 – – 1,129,778 – – – – – – – 1,129,778 6,000
Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans 1,125,000 – – 4,778 – – 1,129,778 – – – – – – – 1,129,778 12,000
Mr. Peter L. Cella 1,125,000 – – 4,778 – – 1,129,778 – – – – – – – 1,129,778 7,500
Mr. Mark A. Weinberger1 1,125,000 – – 4,778 – – 1,129,778 – – – – – – – 1,129,778 –
Mr. Andrew F. J. Gould2 – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – 8,250
Total 5,625,000 – – 23,890 – – 5,648,890 – – – – – – – 5,648,890 45,000
Non-executive Directors
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan 1,125,000 – – 5,220 – – 1,130,220 – – – – – – – 1,130,220 14,250
H.E. Dr. Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf 1,125,000 – – 5,220 – – 1,130,220 – – – – – – – 1,130,220 13,500
H.E. Mohammed A. Al-Jadaan 1,125,000 – – 5,220 – – 1,130,220 – – – – – – – 1,130,220 7,500
H.E. Mohammad M. Al-Tuwaijri 1,125,000 – – 5,220 – – 1,130,220 – – – – – – – 1,130,220 11,250
H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi 1,125,000 – – 50,651 – – 1,175,651 – – – – – – – 1,175,651 5,250
H.E. Khalid A. Al-Falih3 – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – 9,000
Total 5,625,000 – – 71,531 – – 5,696,531 – – – – – – – 5,696,531 60,750
Executive Directors
Mr. Amin H. Nasser – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Total – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Total 11,250,000 – – 95,421 – – 11,345,421 – – – – – – – 11,345,421 105,750
1. Mr. Mark A. Weinberger was appointed as a member of the Board on March 31, 2020.
2. Mr. Andrew F. J. Gould departed from the Board and its Committees on March 19, 2020.
3. H.E. Khalid A. Al-Falih’s remuneration presented in the table above represents amounts paid in 2020 relating to 2019 while he was a member of the Board. He departed from the
Board and its Committees on September 3, 2019.
In accordance with the Company’s Bylaws, the Compensation Committee of the Board sets Director remuneration, without exceeding
SAR 1.8 million for each member per year. Non-executive/independent members of the Board receive an annual fixed fee, reimbursement
of any travel expenses and health, welfare, and accommodation benefits for their service. Committee members receive no additional
remuneration for their service on Board Committees. Executive members of the Board are not remunerated for their service as Directors.
ecnanrevog
etaroproC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 128]
Senior Executives remuneration
Table 2 sets out the aggregated remuneration paid to the Company’s six highest paid Senior Executives, inclusive of the CEO and
CFO positions.
Table 2: Total remuneration paid to the six highest paid executives including CEO and CFO
Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration
All amounts
in SAR
seiralaS
secnawollA
stifeneb
dnik-nI latoT
snoitarenumer
cidoireP stiforP
evitnecni
mret-trohS
snalp
evitnecni
mret-gnoL
snalp
)eulav(
serahs
detnarG latoT
drawa
ecivres-fo-dnE
rof
snoitarenumer
latoT
yna
fi
,sevitucexE
draoB
tnuoma
etagerggA
126
Total 14,344,540 8,982,517 1,834,130 25,161,187 – – 12,144,325 18,546,959 41,715 30,732,999 36,681,051 – 92,575,237
The Company’s compensation framework Incentive Plan (STI), an annual cash- • Besides pension, savings plan and
for its Senior Executives is designed based plan designed to reward medical services, benefits are primarily
to provide a balanced compensation performance in three areas (financial, housing-related allowances or
package that includes base pay, operational, and safety and equivalent, and transportation-related
variable pay and benefits as follows: sustainability), and (ii) a Long-Term allowances or equivalent. The nature
Incentive Plan (LTI) designed to reward and levels of benefits for the Senior
• With respect to base pay, the Company
key financial, strategic and Executives are periodically reviewed
considers the level and demands of
environmental/sustainability and approved by the Compensation
the position, including duties and
performance over a three-year period. Committee.
responsibilities, as well as the
The values reported for 2020 represent
educational qualifications, practical • End-of-service awards represent the
the awarded amounts for the 2018 to
experience, skills, performance, and annual incremental value to the
2020 performance period.
seniority of the individual, all within employee of pension provisions and
the context of market conditions • Granted shares reported for 2020 end-of-service severance provisions,
and pay practices at peers and other represent a one-time award of 235 all of which are paid post-employment.
relevant companies. Saudi Arabian Oil Company shares to
all employees in December 2019,
• With respect to variable pay, the
under a Celebratory Grant to mark the
Company offers variable compensation
Company’s successful initial public
that is market-aligned and subject to
offering (IPO). Shares under the
the fulfillment of predefined
Celebratory Grant were subject to a
performance goals. Two key variable
12-month restrictive holding period
pay plans are used: (i) a Short-Term
which vested on December 10, 2020.
[Page 129]
127
Directors’ and Senior Executives’ shareholdings and holdings in debt instruments
Table 3 illustrates shares held by Directors, their relatives, and changes that occurred during 2020. No Director has any interest in
debt instruments issued by the Company and there were no arrangements or agreements by which any of the Directors waived any
salary or compensation.
Table 4 illustrates shares held by Senior Executives, their relatives, and changes that occurred during 2020. No Senior Executive has
any interest in debt instruments issued by the Company and there were no arrangements or agreements by which any of the Senior
Executives waived any salary or compensation.
Table 3: Board of Directors’ rights to shares or debt instruments
Ownership by Directors
Description of any interest, contractually based securities and subscription rights of the Directors and their relatives in the Company's /
subsidiaries’ shares or debt instruments.
Beginning of the year End of the year
Number Debt Number Debt
Name of interest holder of shares instruments of shares instruments Net change
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan – – 3,000,000 – 3,000,000
H.E. Dr. Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf – – 15,000 – 15,000
H.E. Mohammed A. Al-Jadaan – – – – –
H.E. Mohammad M. Al-Tuwaijri – – – – –
H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi – – – – –
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart1 – – – – –
Mr. Andrew N. Liveris1 – – – – –
Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans1 – – – – –
Mr. Peter L. Cella1 – – – – –
Mr. Mark A. Weinberger1,2 – – – – –
Mr. Andrew F. J. Gould1,3 – – – – –
Ownership of Directors’ relatives4
Beginning of the year End of the year
Number Debt Number Debt
Name of interest holder of shares instruments of shares instruments Net change
Relatives of H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan – – – – –
Relatives of H.E. Dr. Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf – – – – –
Relatives of H.E. Mohammed A. Al-Jadaan – – – – –
Relatives of H.E. Mohammad M. Al-Tuwaijri – – – – –
Relatives of H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi – – – – –
Relatives of Sir Mark Moody-Stuart1 – – – – –
Relatives of Mr. Andrew N. Liveris1 – – – – –
Relatives of Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans1 – – – – –
Relatives of Mr. Peter L. Cella1 – – – – –
Relatives of Mr. Mark A. Weinberger1,2 – – – – –
Relatives of Mr. Andrew F. J. Gould1,3 – – – – –
1. Non-Saudi nationals not resident in Saudi Arabia are not allowed to be the registered legal owner of Company shares.
2. Mr. Mark A. Weinberger was appointed as a member of the Board on March 31, 2020.
3. Mr. Andrew F. J. Gould departed from the Board and its Committees on March 19, 2020.
4. The term relatives, as defined under the Corporate Governance Regulations, refers to:
– fathers, mothers, grandfathers and grandmothers (and their ancestors);
– children and grandchildren and their descendants;
– siblings, maternal and paternal half-siblings and their children; and
– husbands and wives.
ecnanrevog
etaroproC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 130]
128
Table 4: Senior Executives’ rights to shares or debt instruments
Ownership by Senior Executives
Description of any interest, contractually based securities and subscription rights of the Senior Executives and their relatives in the
Company's / subsidiaries’ shares or debt instruments.
Beginning of the year End of the year
Number Debt Number Debt
Name of interest holder of shares instruments of shares instruments Net change
Mr. Amin H. Nasser – – 235 – 235
Mr. Mohammed Y. Al-Qahtani 17,868 – 18,703 – 835
Mr. Abdulaziz M. Al-Gudaimi 16,248 – 17,183 – 935
Mr. Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh – – 235 – 235
Mr. Ahmad A. Al-Sa’adi 15,996 – 16,531 – 535
Mr. Nabeel A. Al-Mansour – – 235 – 235
Mr. Nabeel A. Al-Jama’ 31,203 – 31,538 – 335
Mr. Nasir K. Al-Naimi1 3,756 – 3,756 – –
Mr. Muhammad M. Al-Saggaf2 31,005 – 31,605 – 600
Ownership of Senior Executives’ relatives3
Beginning of the year End of the year
Number Debt Number Debt
Name of interest holder of shares instruments of shares instruments Net change
Relatives of Mr. Amin H. Nasser – – 2,119 – 2,119
Relatives of Mr. Mohammed Y. Al-Qahtani 1,000 – 91,087 – 90,087
Relatives of Mr. Abdulaziz M. Al-Gudaimi – – – – –
Relatives of Mr. Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh 4,314 – 4,776 – 462
Relatives of Mr. Ahmad A. Al-Sa’adi 5,253 – 5,788 – 535
Relatives of Mr. Nabeel A. Al-Mansour 6,776 – 10,429 – 3,653
Relatives of Mr. Nabeel A. Al-Jama’ 6,430 – 7,165 – 735
Relatives of Mr. Nasir K. Al-Naimi1 665 – 665 – –
Relatives of Mr. Muhammad M. Al-Saggaf2 – – – – –
1. Mr. Nasir K. Al-Naimi was named acting Business Line Head of Upstream in September 2020.
2. Mr. Al-Saggaf retired from the Company, effective June 30, 2020.
3. The term relatives, as defined under the Corporate Governance Regulations, refers to:
– fathers, mothers, grandfathers and grandmothers (and their ancestors);
– children and grandchildren and their descendants;
– siblings, maternal and paternal half-siblings and their children; and
– husbands and wives.
[Page 131]
129
Governance, risk and compliance
The Company has adopted and Interests in voting shares The Company granted a one-time
implemented certain corporate There are no interests in any class of award of Saudi Arabian Oil Company
governance policies and procedures voting shares held by persons who have shares to all employees in December
specified in the Corporate Governance notified the Company of their holdings 2019, under a Celebratory Grant to
Regulations and continues to review pursuant to Article 67 of the Rules on mark the Company’s successful initial
and identify additional policies and the Offer of Securities and Continuing public offering (IPO). Shares under
procedures that it believes are appropriate Obligations. the Celebratory Grant were subject
for a company of its size, structure, to a 12-month restrictive holding
and industry. Moreover, the Company Investments made or any reserves set up period, and a total of 15 million
has implemented a Code of Business for the benefit of employees shares were equity-settled during
Conduct which provides guidelines to 2020. For further details, refer to
All amounts in millions SAR 2020 2019
the Directors, Senior Management, Note 18 of the consolidated financial
employees and contract employees of the Pension plans 12,167 (1,600) statements contained in Section 8.
Company and its controlled subsidiaries Medical and other post-
regarding, among other things, health, employment benefit plans 42,040 22,774 Redeemable debt instruments
safety and environmental protection, Net benefit liability 54,207 21,174 The Company did not redeem,
competition and antitrust, anti-bribery purchase or cancel any redeemable
and anti-corruption, insider trading, For details regarding investments made debt instruments.
and compliance with applicable law. or any reserves set up for the benefit
of employees, refer to Note 22 of the Numbers of Aramco’s requests of
Risk management consolidated financial statements shareholders records in 2020
contained in Section 8.
The Board routinely assesses the No. Request date Request rationale
Company’s risks that could impact Convertible debt instruments, contractual 1 January 2 Shareholder analysis
its business model and/or, future
securities, preemptive right or similar 2 January 9 Shareholder analysis
performance. The Company’s risk
rights issued or granted 3 January 31 Shareholder analysis
management framework and risk
On December 11, 2019, the Company
factors are outlined in Section 5: Risk. 4 February 23 Shareholder analysis
acquired 117.2 million ordinary shares
5 March 5 Shareholder analysis
from the Government for the purposes of
Board of Directors declarations 6 March 8 Shareholder analysis
issuing them to employees through the
The Board declares the following: Company’s share plans. For further 7 March 9 Shareholder analysis
details, refer to Note 17 and 18 of the 8 March 10 Shareholder analysis
• the accounting records were properly
prepared; consolidated financial statements 9 March 11 Shareholder analysis
contained in Section 8.
10 March 12 Shareholder analysis
• the system of internal control is sound
11 March 16 Shareholder analysis
in design and has been effectively Conversion or subscription rights under
implemented; and any convertible debt instruments, 12 March 18 Shareholder analysis
contractually based securities, warrants 13 March 22 Dividends distributions
• there are no doubts on the Company’s
ability to continue business. or similar rights issued or granted 14 April 9 Shareholder analysis
The Company did not issue or grant any
15 April 30 Shareholder analysis
conversion or subscription rights under
Company declarations 16 May 11 Annual General
any convertible debt instruments,
Assembly Meeting
SOCPA endorsed IFRS compliant contractually based securities, warrants
17 June 1 Dividends distributions
The consolidated financial statements or similar rights. Refer to the preceding
have been prepared in accordance paragraph for disclosure on convertible 18 August 13 Dividends distributions
with International Financial Reporting debt instruments, contractual securities, 19 September 6 Shareholder analysis
Standards (IFRS), that are endorsed preemptive right or similar rights issued 20 September 21 Shareholder analysis
in the Kingdom, and other standards or granted by the Company.
21 November 2 Shareholder analysis
and pronouncements issued by SOCPA.
22 November 11 Dividends distributions
The consolidated financial statements
are also in compliance with IFRS as 23 December 16 Shareholder analysis
issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board (IASB).
ecnanrevog
etaroproC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
12,167
42,040
54,207
[Page 132]
130
Dividend distribution policy and In 2019 and 2020, the Company’s dividend Royal Order No. A/42, dated 26/1/1441H
dividends framework payments totaled SAR 274.4 billion (corresponding to September 25, 2019)
Pursuant to the Bylaws, the Board has ($73.2 billion) and SAR 261.2 billion provides that, to the extent that the
sole discretion to declare dividends ($69.6 billion), respectively. On March 18, Board determines that the amount of
with respect to the outstanding shares 2021, the Company declared an ordinary any quarterly cash dividend declared
in accordance with the Company’s dividend of SAR 70.3 billion ($18.8 billion) with respect to calendar years 2020
Dividend Distribution Policy. However, with respect to the fourth quarter of 2020 through 2024 would have been less
it is under no obligation to do so. The and is payable to the holders of shares as than $0.09375 per ordinary share
amount and frequency of any dividends at the eligibility date for payment of such (based on 200,000,000,000 ordinary
will depend on a number of factors, dividend as declared by the Board. shares outstanding) but for the
including the Company’s historic and Government forgoing its rights to such
anticipated earnings and cash flow, It is the intention of the Board, in its dividend as follows, the Government
the Company’s financial obligations and discretion, to deliver sustainable dividends will forgo its right to receive the portion
capital requirements, general economic to its shareholders. The Company’s of cash dividends on its ordinary shares
and market conditions and other factors Dividend Distribution Policy states that equal to the amount necessary to enable
deemed relevant by the Board. The dividends may be declared from net the Company to first pay the minimum
Company’s expectations in connection profits only after the Company has: quarterly cash dividend amount described
with these factors are subject to above to holders of ordinary shares other
• ensured that dividends are capable
numerous assumptions, risks and than the Government. The remaining
of being distributed by the Company
uncertainties, which may be beyond amount of the declared dividend as
with reference to its most current
the Company’s control. determined by the Board in its discretion
financial statements;
will be paid to the Government.
The Company pays dividends to non- • established any reserves to meet
Government shareholders in SAR and contingencies as determined from time In addition, dividends forgone will
to the Government in U.S. Dollars. to time at the discretion of the Board; not accrue or otherwise be paid to the
All shares have the same entitlement and Government and the waiver applies
to any dividends declared by the to all ordinary shares not held by the
• taken into consideration its working
Board and any dividends are and will Government from time to time and
capital requirements, near-term
be distributed in compliance with held from 2020 to 2024.
liquidity and any other factors or
applicable tax laws.
considerations that may be relevant
In 2020, no shareholder of the Company
in this regard, including but not limited
has waived any rights to dividends.
to the implications of any dividend
distributions on the Company’s capital
Punishments and penalties
structure, credit ratings and publicly
The Company is committed to the highest
communicated gearing targets.
standards of governance and complies
with applicable laws and regulations.
The Company is not aware of any penalty,
precautionary procedure or preventative
measure imposed on it by any authority,
supervisory, regulatory or judicial body
in 2020.
Board of Directors’ report
The information contained in Sections 1 – 7
of this Annual Report constitutes the Board
of Directors’ report.
[Page 133]
131
Compliance with CMA Corporate Governance Regulations
The Company has implemented all the provisions contained in the Corporate Governance Regulations issued by the CMA that can be
found publicly on the CMA website, except the provisions noted below:
Article No. Provision of the Article Justification
20(c)(10) (c) By way of example, the following negate the The Company acknowledges that one of its independent
independence requirement for an Independent Directors has served on the Board for more than nine
Director: years. While this provision remains a Guiding Article until
the end of this Director's current term (his term started
(10) if he/she served for more than nine years, prior to January 1, 2019), the Company evaluates the
consecutive or inconsecutive, as a Board member independence of each of its independent Directors
of the Company. annually and has determined that all are able to perform
the duties and exercise the independent judgment
required of the role.
46(3) Without prejudice to Article (72) of the Companies Law No current Board members of the Company have
and other relevant provisions in these regulations, if a expressed a desire to “engage in a competitive business”
member of the Board desires to engage in a business or activity in 2020. Notwithstanding this fact, the
that may compete with the Company or any of its Company is aware of the regulatory requirement to
activities, the following shall be taken into account: maintain a set of “competition standards” by which to
assess potential future requests of this nature, if any.
(3) the chairman of the Board informing the Ordinary To that end, the Company has implemented a process
General Assembly, once convened, of the competing to develop such competition standards, and expects
businesses that the member of the Board is engaged to present the same to its shareholders at the Company’s
in, after the Board assesses the board member's 2021 AGM for approval. As a result, the Company expects
competition with the Company's business or if he/she to be in compliance with this CGR by the end of 2021.
is in competition with one of the branch activities that
it conducts in accordance with the standards issued
by the Ordinary General Assembly upon a proposal
from the Board and published on the Company’s
website, provided that such businesses are assessed
on annual basis.
95 If the Board forms a corporate governance committee, While this is a Guiding Article, the Board has charged
(Guiding Article) it shall assign to it the competences (sic) stipulated in the Nomination Committee, formed pursuant to the
Article (94) of these Regulations. Such committee shall Company Bylaws, with the responsibility of overseeing
oversee any matters relating to the implementation of and making recommendations to the Board with respect
governance, and shall provide the Board with its to the Company's corporate governance policies and
reports and recommendations at least annually. practices, including the competencies of effective
governance described in Article (94) of the Regulations.
ecnanrevog
etaroproC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 136]
134
Additional financial information
Historical financial highlights
Summarized consolidated statement of income
Year ended December 31
All amounts in millions SAR unless otherwise stated 2020 2019 20181 20171 20161
Revenue2 768,109 1,105,696 1,194,376 840,483 504,596
Other income related to sales3 93,982 131,089 152,641 150,176 –
Revenue and other income related to sales 862,091 1,236,785 1,347,017 990,659 504,596
Operating costs2 (478,731) (561,914) (548,612) (407,744) (198,896)
Operating income 383,360 674,871 798,405 582,915 305,700
Income before income taxes and zakat 372,424 666,741 797,896 581,438 304,976
Income taxes and zakat4 (188,661) (336,048) (381,378) (296,819) (255,255)
Net income 183,763 330,693 416,518 284,619 49,721
1. In the preparation of each of its financial statements Aramco reclassified certain comparative amounts, at that time, to conform to the current year presentation. Such reclassifications
did not impact the previously reported net income. The financial information above presents the reclassified results extracted from the comparative column of the relevant financial
statements.
2. Prior to 2017, royalties payable to the Government were accounted for as a deduction from revenue. With effect from January 1, 2017, royalties attributable to the production of crude
oil and condensate, natural gas and NGL are accounted for as an expense, rather than a deduction from revenue.
3. Aramco sells certain hydrocarbons within the Kingdom at regulated prices mandated by the Government. From January 1, 2017, the Government implemented an equalization
mechanism to compensate the Company for revenues directly forgone as a result of its compliance with the Government mandates related to crude oil and certain refined products.
Effective September 17, 2019, the Government implemented an equalization mechanism related to Regulated Gas Products. Effective January 1, 2020, the Government expanded the
equalization mechanism to include LPGs and certain other products.
4. As at January 1, 2017, the income tax rate applicable to Aramco was reduced from 85% to 50%, except that: (i) effective from January 1, 2018, a 20% tax rate applies to the Company’s
taxable income related to certain natural gas activities; and (ii) effective January 1, 2020, the tax rate applicable to the Company’s downstream activities is the general corporate tax
rate of 20% that applies to all similar domestic downstream companies under the Income Tax Law.
Summarized consolidated balance sheet
As at December 31
All amounts in millions SAR unless otherwise stated 2020 20192 20181 2017 2016
Total assets 1,914,261 1,494,126 1,346,892 1,102,553 940,703
Total liabilities 813,167 447,891 318,457 276,239 205,357
Net assets (total equity) 1,101,094 1,046,235 1,028,435 826,314 735,346
1. In the preparation of each of its financial statements Aramco reclassified certain comparative amounts, at that time, to conform to the current year presentation. The financial
information above presents the reclassified results extracted from the comparative column of the relevant financial statements.
2. Aramco adopted IFRS 16 on January 1, 2019, using a modified retrospective approach. As a result, in the preparation of the 2019 financial statements, Aramco applied prospectively,
starting January 1, 2019, the new classification and measurement models for lease contracts and consequently 2018 and prior period comparative information was not restated.
Summarized consolidated statement of cash flows
Year ended December 31
All amounts in millions SAR unless otherwise stated 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Net cash provided by operating activities 285,297 416,529 453,701 333,607 109,411
Net cash used in investing activities (20,899) (177,144) (131,205) (118,629) (116,900)
Net cash (used in)/provided by financing activities (234,872) (244,831) (220,586) (181,811) 2,021
[TABLE DATA]
|
768,109 |
93,982 |
862,091 |
(478,731) |
383,360 |
|
372,424 |
(188,661) |
183,763 |
|
1,914,261 |
813,167 |
1,101,094 |
|
285,297 |
(20,899) |
(234,872) |
[Page 137]
135
Statutory amounts paid and payable
Statutory amounts paid1
Year ended
All amounts in millions SAR December 31,
unless otherwise stated Reasons for amounts paid 2020
Income taxes and zakat calculated in accordance with Saudi Income Tax Regulations.
Income taxes and zakat See Note 9 of the consolidated financial statements 72,582
Royalties Production royalties determined in accordance with Government agreements 82,958
Total 155,540
Statutory amounts payable1
As at
All amounts in millions SAR December 31,
unless otherwise stated Reasons for amounts payable 2020
Income taxes and zakat Government obligation, payable on a monthly basis 39,828
Royalties Government obligation, payable on a monthly basis 8,197
Total 48,025
1. Statutory amounts paid and payable are in respect of the Company.
Geographical analysis of Aramco’s external revenue
Sales to external customers by region are based on the location of the Aramco entity which made the sale. Out-of-Kingdom revenue
includes sales of SAR 110,652 million originating from the United States of America (2019: SAR 119,325 million). For more details, refer
to Section 8: Consolidated financial statements – Note 5.
2020 2019
Billions SAR Billions SAR
538.4 In-Kingdom 871.5 In-Kingdom
229.7 Out-of-Kingdom 234.2 Out-of-Kingdom
Geographical analysis of the Company’s crude oil deliveries
The following analysis is based on the Company’s crude oil delivery destination.
Year ended December 31
2020 2019
mbpd mbpd
Region:
Asia (excluding the Kingdom) 5,102 5,436
North America 546 563
Europe 759 802
Others 258 248
Total international deliveries 6,665 7,049
Total in-Kingdom deliveries 2,552 2,886
Total crude oil deliveries1,2,3,4 9,217 9,935
1. Includes condensate blended with crude oil.
2. Excludes AGOC’s oil production.
3. Excludes loss in volumes measured upon loading and unloading of crude oil shipments.
4. Excludes volumes produced from Abu Sa’fah and delivered to the Kingdom of Bahrain.
notiamrofni
lagel
dna
laicnanfi
lanotiiddA
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
72,582
82,958
155,540
39,828
8,197
48,025
5,102
546
759
258
6,665
2,552
9,217
[Page 138]
136
Related party transactions
Aramco has entered into various related party contracts and transactions. These principally include sales and purchases, and providing
and receiving services. The Directors declare that all such contracts and transactions have been entered into on an arm’s length basis.
Aramco sells hydrocarbon products and provides services to the Government, semi-Government entities and other entities in which
the Government has share ownership or control. The transactions are made on specific terms within the relevant regulatory
framework in the Kingdom.
Other than with respect to compensation arrangements, as at the date of this Annual Report there are no transactions in which any
of the Company’s Directors or Senior Executives or an immediate family member thereof had or will have a direct or indirect interest
or were not entered into on an arm’s length basis. For compensation related transactions with the Company’s Directors and Senior
Executives, see Section 6: Corporate governance.
For more information on Aramco’s related party transactions, see Section 8: Consolidated financial statements - Note 30.
The following table sets forth material related party transactions entered into by Aramco during the year ended December 31, 2020.
Year ended
December 31,
All amounts in millions SAR unless otherwise stated 2020
Joint ventures:
Revenue from sales 14,393
Other revenue 72
Interest income 98
Purchases 8,719
Service expenses 11
Associates:
Revenue from sales 32,580
Other revenue 753
Interest income 120
Purchases 28,451
Service expenses 199
Government, semi-Government and other entities with Government ownership or control:
Revenue from sales 24,866
Other income related to sales 93,982
Other revenue 953
Purchases 10,384
Service expenses 454
The following table sets forth Aramco’s material related party transaction balances as at December 31, 2020.
As at
December 31,
All amounts in millions SAR unless otherwise stated 2020
Joint ventures:
Other assets and receivables 6,368
Trade receivables 3,210
Interest receivable 128
Trade and other payable 3,986
Associates:
Other assets and receivables 7,395
Trade receivables 8,415
Trade and other payables 3,784
Government, semi-Government and other entities with Government ownership or control:
Other assets and receivables 540
Trade receivables 1,429
Due from the Government 28,895
Trade and other payables 1,770
Borrowings 243,378
[TABLE DATA]
14,393
72
98
8,719
11
32,580
753
120
28,451
199
24,866
93,982
953
10,384
454
6,368
3,210
128
3,986
7,395
8,415
3,784
540
1,429
28,895
1,770
243,378
[Page 139]
137
Related party transactions continued
The following table sets forth material related party transactions and balances for the year ended, and as at, December 31, 2020, by
related party.
December 31,
All amounts in millions SAR unless otherwise stated 2020
Transactions with joint ventures:
Revenue from sales
Eastern Petrochemical Company ("Sharq") 3,949
Sadara Chemical Company ("Sadara") 2,985
Saudi Yanbu Petrochemical Company ("YANPET") 2,434
Al-Jubail Petrochemical Company ("KEMYA") 1,995
First Coast Energy LLP ("FCE") 1,249
Tas’helat Marketing Company ("TMC") 1,211
Others 570
14,393
Other revenue
Others 72
72
Interest income
Others 98
98
Purchases
Eastern Petrochemical Company ("Sharq") 4,035
Saudi Yanbu Petrochemical Company ("YANPET") 2,048
Al-Jubail Petrochemical Company ("KEMYA") 1,871
Others 765
8,719
Services expenses
Others 11
11
Other assets and receivables
Sadara Chemical Company ("Sadara") 3,904
Eastern Petrochemical Company ("Sharq") 2,284
Others 180
6,368
Trade receivables
Others 3,210
3,210
Interest receivable
Others 128
128
Trade and other payables
Eastern Petrochemical Company ("Sharq") 2,933
Others 1,053
3,986
notiamrofni
lagel
dna
laicnanfi
lanotiiddA
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
3,949
2,985
2,434
1,995
1,249
1,211
570
14,393
72
72
98
98
4,035
2,048
1,871
765
8,719
11
11
3,904
2,284
180
6,368
3,210
3,210
128
128
2,933
1,053
3,986
[Page 140]
138
Related party transactions continued
December 31,
All amounts in millions SAR unless otherwise stated 2020
Transactions with associates:
Revenue from sales
Rabigh Refining & Petrochemical Company ("Petro Rabigh") 17,738
Hyundai Oilbank Co. Ltd. ("Hyundai Oilbank") 13,106
Power & Water Utility Company for Jubail and Yanbu ("Marafiq") 1,208
Others 528
32,580
Other revenue
Others 753
753
Interest income
Others 120
120
Purchases
Rabigh Refining & Petrochemical Company ("Petro Rabigh") 17,228
National Shipping Company of Saudi Arabia ("Bahri") 3,593
Sinopec SenMei (Fujian) Petroleum Company Limited ("SSPC") 1,988
Power & Water Utility Company for Jubail and Yanbu ("Marafiq") 1,920
Hyundai Oilbank Co. Ltd. ("Hyundai Oilbank") 1,481
Fujian Refining and Petrochemical Company Limited ("FREP") 1,241
Others 1,000
28,451
Service expenses
Others 199
199
Other assets and receivables
Rabigh Refining & Petrochemical Company ("Petro Rabigh") 7,376
Others 19
7,395
Trade Receivables
Rabigh Refining & Petrochemical Company ("Petro Rabigh") 6,968
Hyundai Oilbank Co. Ltd. ("Hyundai Oilbank") 1,046
Others 401
8,415
Trade and other payables
Rabigh Refining & Petrochemical Company ("Petro Rabigh") 3,431
Others 353
3,784
[TABLE DATA]
17,738
13,106
1,208
528
32,580
753
753
120
120
17,228
3,593
1,988
1,920
1,481
1,241
1,000
28,451
199
199
7,376
19
7,395
6,968
1,046
401
8,415
3,431
353
3,784
[Page 141]
139
Related party transactions continued
December 31,
All amounts in millions SAR unless otherwise stated 2020
Transactions with Government, semi-Government and other entities with Government ownership or control1:
Revenue from sales
Government and semi-Government 1,170
Saudi Electricity Company ("SEC") 8,738
Saline Water Conversion Company ("SWCC") 2,220
Arabian Petrochemical Company ("PETROKEMYA") 2,093
Saudi Arabian Airlines ("Saudia") 1,369
Eastern Petrochemical Company ("Sharq") 1,361
Saudi Kayan Petrochemical Company ("SAUDI KAYAN") 1,298
Others 6,617
24,866
Other income related to sales
Government and semi-Government 93,982
93,982
Other revenue
Government and semi-Government 424
Others 529
953
Purchases
Government and semi-Government 1,005
Saudi Electricity Company ("SEC") 3,461
Arabian Drilling Company 1,703
Saudi Arabian Mining Company ("Ma'aden") 1,076
Others 3,139
10,384
Services expenses
Government and semi-Government 450
Others 4
454
Other assets and receivables
Others 540
540
Trade receivables
Government and semi-Government 68
Others 1,361
1,429
Due from the Government
Government and semi-Government 28,895
28,895
Trade and other payables
Government and semi-Government 1,253
Others 517
1,770
Borrowings
Government and semi-Government 243,378
243,378
1. SABIC related entities are included as part of Government, semi-Government and other entities with Government ownership or control up to the date of Aramco’s acquisition of a 70%
equity interest in SABIC on June 16, 2020.
notiamrofni
lagel
dna
laicnanfi
lanotiiddA
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
1,170
8,738
2,220
2,093
1,369
1,361
1,298
6,617
24,866
93,982
93,982
424
529
953
1,005
3,461
1,703
1,076
3,139
10,384
450
4
454
540
540
68
1,361
1,429
28,895
28,895
1,253
517
1,770
243,378
243,378
[Page 142]
140
Total indebtedness of Aramco
Information on Aramco’s total indebtedness as at December 31, 2020, is as follows:
Total Loan Repaid Balance as at Maturity
All amounts in millions SAR unless otherwise stated facility duration during the year December 31, 2020 date
Commercial 41,561 7 to 23 years (10,461) 34,478 2022-2039
Sukuk 39,844 7 to 14 years (175) 12,651 2024-2025
Export credit agencies 7,691 14 to 16 years (881) 4,560 2022-2025
Public Investment Fund 5,591 9 to 15 years (529) 3,656 2022-2025
Saudi Industrial Development Fund 5,036 7 to 17 years (500) 3,855 2022-2030
Ijarah / Procurement 3,934 10 to 14 years (444) 3,360 2022-2029
Murabaha 18,814 5 to 22 years (2,246) 15,379 2021-2030
Wakala 1,721 10 to 16 years (22) 863 2029-2036
Revolving credit facility 50,460 1 to 7 years – 6,830 2021-2022
Short-term borrowings 74,213 1 year – 53,255 2021
Debentures 106,313 3 to 50 years (618) 104,425 2021-2070
Deferred consideration 259,125 8 years (26,249) 235,867 2028
Lease liabilities – – (10,868) 53,575 Not defined
Other – – – 3,323 Not defined
614,303 (52,993) 536,077
[Page 143]
141
Reserves information
Reserves as at December 31, 2020
As at December 31, 2020, the Kingdom’s reserves in the fields Aramco operates consisted of 336.9 billion boe (2019: 336.7 billion boe),
including 261.6 billion barrels (2019: 261.5 billion barrels) of crude oil and condensate, 36.0 billion barrels (2019: 36.0 billion barrels)
of NGL and 238.8 tscf (2019: 237.4 tscf) of natural gas, including 150.2 tscf (2019: 146.8 tscf) of non-associated gas.
Under the Original Concession, which was in effect until December 24, 2017, Aramco’s rights with respect to hydrocarbons in the
Kingdom were not limited to a particular term. Accordingly, until such date, the Kingdom’s reserves in the fields Aramco operated
were the same as Aramco’s reserves. Effective December 24, 2017, the Concession limited Aramco’s exclusive right to explore,
develop and produce the Kingdom’s hydrocarbon resources, except in the Excluded Areas, to an initial period of 40 years, which
will be extended by the Government for 20 years provided Aramco satisfies certain conditions commensurate with current operating
practices. In addition, the Concession may be extended for an additional 40 years beyond the prior 60-year period subject to Aramco
and the Government agreeing on the terms of the extension (see Additional legal information — the Concession). The provision of
a specified term in the Concession impacts the calculation of Aramco’s reserves as compared to the Kingdom’s reserves in the fields
Aramco operates. The Concession also requires Aramco to meet domestic demand for certain hydrocarbons, petroleum products and
LPGs through domestic production or imports.
Based on the initial 40-year period and 20-year extension of the Concession, as at December 31, 2020, Aramco’s reserves were
255.2 billion boe (2019: 258.6 billion boe). Aramco’s oil equivalent reserves consisted of 198.8 billion barrels (2019: 201.9 billion
barrels) of crude oil and condensate, 25.2 billion barrels (2019: 25.7 billion barrels) of NGL and 191.6 tscf (2019: 190.6 tscf) of
natural gas. As at December 31, 2020, Aramco’s portfolio included 517 (2019: 510) reservoirs within 137 (2019: 138) fields distributed
throughout the Kingdom and its territorial waters. Based on Aramco’s reserves data, as at December 31, 2020, Aramco’s oil equivalent
reserves were sufficient for proved reserves life of 56 years.
Aramco manages the Kingdom’s unique reserves and resources base to optimize production and maximize long-term value pursuant
to the Hydrocarbons Law, which mandates that Aramco’s hydrocarbon operations promote long-term productivity of the Kingdom’s
reservoirs and support the prudent stewardship of its hydrocarbon resources. Aramco has historically replaced reserves on an
organic basis through revisions of reserve estimates at existing fields and through delineation and exploration to identify new fields.
As a result, the Kingdom’s estimated proved reserves at the largest oil fields operated by Aramco have increased since the time of
original production.
The following table sets forth Aramco’s estimates of its proved reserves based on the term of the Concession as at December 31, 2020
and 2019.
Natural gas
Crude oil Condensate NGL Combined
(mmbbl) (mmbbl) (bscf) (mmboe) (mmbbl) (mmboe)
Reserves as at December 31, 2020 195,444 3,399 191,573 31,086 25,226 255,155
Reserves as at December 31, 2019 198,569 3,338 190,575 30,933 25,723 258,563
The following table sets forth the Kingdom’s estimates of its proved reserves in the fields Aramco operates as at December 31, 2020
and 2019.
Natural gas
Crude oil Condensate NGL Combined
(mmbbl) (mmbbl) (bscf) (mmboe) (mmbbl) (mmboe)
Reserves as at December 31, 2020 257,063 4,493 238,838 39,345 35,971 336,872
Reserves as at December 31, 2019 257,125 4,410 237,368 39,119 36,043 336,697
Aramco’s reserve estimates conform to the SPE-PRMS definitions and guidelines, which is the internationally recognized industry
standard sponsored by the Society of Petroleum Engineers, the American Association of Petroleum Geologists, the World Petroleum
Council, the Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers, the Society of Exploration Geophysicists, the Society of Petrophysicists and
Well Log Analysts and the European Association of Geoscientists and Engineers. To estimate or update Aramco’s reserve estimates,
the Upstream segment employees responsible for reserves calculations perform technical analyses that are reviewed internally by
progressively higher levels of management until finalized at year-end. Aramco annually updates its estimates as it acquires and
interprets new data. For reservoirs that have been producing and have established certain performance trends, Aramco is typically
able to reliably forecast the reservoir’s future production. For reservoirs that have little to no production history and new discoveries,
Aramco undertakes further analysis in addition to multidisciplinary evaluation to formulate production forecasts.
notiamrofni
lagel
dna
laicnanfi
lanotiiddA
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 144]
142
Regulation of the oil and gas industry in the Kingdom
The following paragraphs summarize certain key regulation and legislation to which Aramco is subject as an operator in the oil and
gas industry.
Law on hydrocarbons
Overview
The Hydrocarbons Law was enacted by Royal Decree No. M/37, dated 2/4/1439H (corresponding to December 20, 2017) and applies to
hydrocarbons, hydrocarbon resources and the hydrocarbon operations existing within the territory of the Kingdom.
Licenses
No hydrocarbon operations can be conducted in the Kingdom without obtaining a license in accordance with the Hydrocarbons Law.
The Government grants licenses related to hydrocarbon operations pursuant to regulations, procedures and policies established from
time to time, which outline the terms and conditions relating to the granting of a license.
The grant of a license pursuant to the Hydrocarbons Law does not, and cannot, confer any right of ownership of the soil or subsoil in
the license area. In addition, the Government retains the right to explore for and exploit any natural resource other than hydrocarbons
in the license area and may exercise such right in a manner that does not prejudice the licensee’s rights and does not hinder the
hydrocarbon operations conducted by a licensee.
Ownership rights
Under the Hydrocarbons Law, the Kingdom exercises sovereignty over all hydrocarbon deposits, hydrocarbons and hydrocarbon
resources. All hydrocarbons in the Kingdom are owned by the Kingdom and, upon extraction or recovery of such hydrocarbons by the
licensee, title to such hydrocarbons shall automatically pass to the licensee at the ownership transfer point. The Kingdom’s ownership
of hydrocarbon deposits and hydrocarbon resources may not be transferred.
Supervision and implementation of the Hydrocarbons Law
The Ministry of Energy is the only body responsible for implementing the Hydrocarbons Law and overseeing all aspects of a licensee’s
hydrocarbons operations, including the licensee’s technical operations and the review of all the licensee’s revenues and expenses.
The Ministry of Energy acts as a liaison between relevant bodies and the licensee in relation to a license. The Ministry of Energy is also
responsible for preparing and overseeing the national strategies and policies related to hydrocarbons to ensure the implementation,
development and appropriate use of hydrocarbon resources, and conservation of the Kingdom’s hydrocarbon reserves for future
generations.
Production decisions
The Kingdom has the sovereign, exclusive and binding authority to make production decisions related to both the maximum level of
hydrocarbons that a licensee can produce at any given point in time and the level of MSC that a licensee must maintain. In each case,
the Kingdom shall take into account the Kingdom’s economic development, environment conservation, national security, political and
developmental goals, foreign policy, diplomatic considerations, domestic energy needs, public interest and any other sovereign interest
when making a production decision. In setting the level of MSC, consideration shall be given to the economic or operational effects
of a licensee. A licensee must provide the Kingdom with any requested information relating to hydrocarbons exploration, extraction
and production, including financial and technical data, discovery data and any other information that could facilitate the issuance of
a production decision. The Kingdom has unrestricted access to such information.
Conservation of hydrocarbon resources
The Hydrocarbons Law requires that hydrocarbons operations be managed and maintained in a professional, adequate and active
manner in accordance with international industry standards, the Hydrocarbons Law and regulations, and in an economically feasible
and efficient manner that promotes the long-term productivity of reservoirs in the licensed area and supports the prudent stewardship
of hydrocarbon resources and hydrocarbons, and limits their abandonment.
Additional licensee obligations
A licensee is responsible for taking all prudent and sound procedures to ensure the safety of the licensee’s hydrocarbon operations
and facilities, in accordance with international industry standards and applicable laws. A licensee is also obligated to take all required
precautions, in accordance with the relevant hydrocarbons regulations and international industry standards, to prevent waste and
leakage of hydrocarbons, damage to formations containing water and hydrocarbons during drilling, repairing or deepening of wells,
or in events of abandonment or relinquishment, and to prevent leakage of gas and liquids into bearing layers or other layers.
The Hydrocarbons Law prohibits any licensee from selling to any entity any hydrocarbons or derivatives obtained through the license
in violation of what the Kingdom considers necessary to protect the fundamental security interests of the Kingdom in times of war or
other emergencies in international relations.
[Page 145]
143
Law of gas supplies and pricing
Overview
The GSPR was enacted by Royal Decree No. M/36, dated 25/6/1424H (corresponding to August 23, 2003), and applies to the activities
of transmission, processing, fractionation, storage, local distribution, aggregation and sales and marketing (each, a Regulated Activity)
of any gaseous or liquid hydrocarbons (other than crude oil or condensate) produced in the Kingdom which have been subject to
treatment in a gas treatment plant (Regulated Hydrocarbons).
Licenses
Pursuant to the GSPR, a license is required for the conduct of any Regulated Activity. In considering an application for a license,
the Ministry of Energy takes into account the long-term security of supply of any Regulated Hydrocarbons, the avoidance of
undesirable duplication consistent with the optimal development of the Kingdom’s gas industry and the proximity of the proposed
Regulated Activity to the MGS.
Aramco as aggregators and tariffs
Under the GSPR, Aramco acts as the aggregator of Regulated Hydrocarbons which access the MGS.
The Ministry of Energy publishes transportation, processing and fractionation tariffs, and other terms and conditions applicable to
the MGS and to connections to the MGS as prescribed in the rules of implementation of the GSPR. The tariff and other terms and
conditions for services provided through any pipeline that is not connected to the MGS are negotiated between the relevant parties.
The rules of implementation of the GSPR set out the criteria for determining third party access tariffs which may be charged for the
utilization of any local distribution system.
Marketing and sales rights: price for natural gas
Pursuant to the GSPR, Aramco performs all domestic marketing and sales of natural gas and NGL from the MGS with certain exceptions.
Aramco also undertakes the export of NGL produced within the Kingdom. Any company that produces Regulated Hydrocarbons in the
Kingdom and does not access the MGS may domestically consume, sell or otherwise domestically dispose of such relevant hydrocarbons
as per the terms set by the Ministry of Energy. All natural gas produced by any company is to be priced at the regulated price in the
Kingdom at the point of delivery to a major consumer or to a licensee entitled to operate a local distribution system.
Allocation of natural gas and NGL
The necessary allocation to users of Regulated Hydrocarbons is effected by the Ministry of Energy pursuant to criteria set by the
Ministry of Energy on the basis of sectoral demand estimates for each of the electricity sector, the petrochemical sector, the water
desalination sector, the oil sector and other industrial sectors, reflecting the usages of natural gas and NGL that achieve the optimal
efficiency and produce the highest added value to the national economy of the Kingdom.
Regulated domestic pricing of certain hydrocarbons
Setting of domestic prices for regulated hydrocarbons
Pursuant to a series of Council of Ministers Resolutions, the Kingdom has established regulated prices for domestic sales of certain
hydrocarbons: crude oil, natural gas (including ethane), NGL (propane, butane and natural gasoline) and certain refined products
(kerosene, diesel, heavy fuel oil and gasoline).
Liquids price equalization
Pursuant to Council of Ministers Resolution No. 406, dated 28/6/1438H (corresponding to March 27, 2017), and the Ministerial
Resolution issued by the Ministry of Energy, in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, No. 1/2465/1439, dated 10/4/1439H
(corresponding to December 28, 2017), when the Company sells crude oil and certain refined products (each a Relevant Liquid
Product) domestically at a price below the corresponding equalization prices (described below), it is entitled to compensation from
the Government in an amount equal to the cost of the revenues directly forgone as a result of its compliance with the Kingdom’s
current pricing mandates (the Liquid Price Equalization). The Ministerial Resolution issued by the Ministry of Energy, in agreement
with the Ministry of Finance, No. 1/424/1441, dated 18/1/1441H (corresponding to September 17, 2019), effective January 1, 2020,
supersedes the prior Ministerial Resolution and expanded the equalization mechanism to include LPGs and certain other products.
In the event the equalization price is less than the regulated price, the difference would be due from the Company to the Government.
The Ministry of Energy is responsible for administering the Liquids Price Equalization regime, including the setting of the equalization
prices from time to time. The equalization prices are established separately by the Ministry of Energy for each Relevant Liquid Product
using a combination of either internationally recognized indices or, where relevant, the Company’s official selling price and, depending
on the Relevant Liquid Product, on the basis of export parity, import parity or a combination of both. The Company is required to
provide information and technical assistance to the Ministry of Energy as necessary for this purpose.
The compensation from the Government is accounted for on a monthly basis and is calculated as the positive difference between
the equalization prices and the regulated prices (minus any Government fees). The Company must provide the Ministry of Energy
with a statement detailing the total amount due in a monthly period no later than 30 days after the relevant monthly period ends.
The Company may then offset this compensation against any taxes payable, and in the event taxes are insufficient, any other
amounts due and payable by the Company to the Government, such as royalties.
notiamrofni
lagel
dna
laicnanfi
lanotiiddA
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 146]
144
Gas pricing
From time to time, the Kingdom establishes certain prices for the domestic sale of gas hydrocarbons (the Domestic Price), including
those for Regulated Gas Products. Pursuant to Council of Ministers Resolution No. 370, dated 10/7/1439H (corresponding to March 27,
2018), and the Ministerial Resolution issued by the Ministry of Energy, in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, No. 01-5928-1439,
dated as at 27/8/1439H (corresponding to May 13, 2018), effective March 17, 2018, the Kingdom established the price due to licensees
for the domestic sale of Regulated Gas Products (the Blended Price) in order to ensure that licensees making gas investments realize
a commercial rate of return suitable for the development and exploitation of gas resources in the Kingdom (with reasonable rates
of return on existing non-associated gas projects and on incremental future non-associated projects).
Effective September 17, 2019, Council of Ministers Resolution No. 55, dated 18/1/1441H (corresponding to September 17, 2019), and the
Ministerial Resolution issued by the Ministry of Energy, in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, No. 1/423/1441, dated 18/1/1441H
(corresponding to September 17, 2019), were passed, superseding the prior Council of Ministers’ resolutions and ministerial resolutions,
and removing the requirement that the Domestic Price be no less than the Blended Price. The new framework instead provides that the
licensees are entitled to compensation from the Government in an amount equal to the cost of the revenues directly forgone as a result
of the licensees’ compliance with the Kingdom’s pricing mandates if the Domestic Prices are not set at least at the Blended Prices. In the
event that the Blended Price is less than the Domestic Price, the difference would be due from the Company to the Government.
The Ministry of Energy is responsible for administering this regime, including setting the Blended Prices from time to time.
The Blended Prices are established separately by the Ministry of Energy for each Regulated Gas Product. The Company is required
to provide information and technical assistance to the Ministry of Energy as necessary for this purpose.
The compensation from the Government is accounted for on a monthly basis and is calculated as the positive difference between
the Blended Prices and the Domestic Prices (minus any Government fees). The Company must provide the Ministry of Energy with
a statement detailing the total amount due in a monthly period no later than 30 days after the relevant monthly period ends.
The Company may then offset this compensation against any taxes payable, and in the event taxes are insufficient, any other
amounts due and payable by the Company to the Government, such as royalties.
Government guarantee
Aramco sells hydrocarbon products to various Government and semi-Government entities, including ministries and other branches
of the Government, and separate legal entities in which the Government has share ownership or control. Effective January 1, 2017,
the Government guarantees amounts due to Aramco from certain of these entities, subject to a limit on the amount of the guarantee
for each entity. The aggregate amount guaranteed in 2018, 2019 and 2020 was SAR 32.7 billion, SAR 26.7 billion and SAR 26.7 billion,
respectively. Prior to the beginning of each subsequent fiscal year or during such year upon the change to any Government
established domestic prices for hydrocarbon products (such regulated sales constituting the majority of the sales to Government and
semi-Government entities covered by the guarantee), the Ministry of Energy will consult with the Ministry of Finance and will provide
Aramco with a list of the entities to be covered by the guarantee for that year and the guarantee limit for each covered entity.
Government entities previously covered will remain subject to the guarantee, but the guarantee will cease with respect to any entity
in which the Government has share ownership or control if such entity pays amounts due to Aramco on a timely basis for five years.
Aramco is permitted to discontinue supply to any such Government or semi-Government customer upon the exhaustion of the credit
limit or if such customer is no longer a guaranteed customer and fails to pay any amounts when due. Aramco may set off any
guaranteed amounts that are past due against taxes due to the Government, or if the amount of taxes is inadequate, any other
amounts Aramco owes to the Government.
Compensation for Saudi Strategic Storage Program
Under the Saudi Strategic Storage Program, the Government requires the Company to maintain reserves of certain petroleum
products. Pursuant to Council of Ministers Resolution No. 56, dated 18/1/1441H (corresponding to September 17, 2019), effective
January 1, 2020, the Government compensates the Company for carrying costs associated with maintaining Government-mandated
petroleum product reserves in an amount of $41.2 million per month. Council of Ministers Resolution No. 56 requires that this amount
be reviewed by the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Finance and the Company every five years.
[Page 147]
145
Income tax and zakat
Saudi resident entities operating in the oil and hydrocarbons production sector are subject to corporate income tax. Accordingly,
the Company is subject to an income tax rate of 20% on the activities of exploration and production of non-associated natural
gas, including gas condensates, as well as the collection, treatment, processing, fractionation and transportation of associated
and non-associated natural gas and their liquids, gas condensates and other associated elements, and an income tax rate of 50%
on all other activities, in accordance with the Income Tax Law.
Royal Decree No. M/13, dated 18/1/1441H (corresponding to September 17, 2019), Council of Ministers Resolution No. 54, dated
18/1/1441H (corresponding to September 17, 2019) and Ministerial Resolution issued by the Ministry of Finance No. 559, dated
10/2/1441H (corresponding to October 9, 2019) provide that the tax rate applicable to the downstream activities of certain taxpayers
undertaking domestic oil and hydrocarbons production activities will be the general corporate tax rate of 20%, for a five-year
period beginning on January 1, 2020, provided the relevant taxpayer splits its downstream activities from the oil and hydrocarbons
production activities (into one or more separate legal entities) before December 31, 2024. If the taxpayer does not comply in
separating its downstream activities from the oil and hydrocarbons production activities by December 31, 2024, income from
downstream activities will be taxed retroactively on an annual basis for such five-year period at 50%. In such case, the taxpayer
will be required to pay the difference in taxes due to the Government.
By Royal Decree No. M/153 dated 05/11/1441H (corresponding to June 26, 2020), the Income Tax Law was further amended
to provide that shares held directly or indirectly in Saudi tax resident companies that are not carrying out oil and hydrocarbons
production activities and listed on the Saudi Stock Exchange (Tadawul) by taxpayers engaged in oil and hydrocarbon activities
are now exempt from corporate income taxes and instead subject to zakat, including their indirect interest in those companies
(at the level of the investee/subsidiary). This Income Tax Law amendment was effective January 1, 2020.
There are certain rules that apply to the method of calculating the zakat liability. In general, zakat on zakat payers engaged in
non-financing activities is currently levied on the higher of the adjusted zakatable profits or the zakat base (following a Hijri year)
which, in general, comprises equity, loans and credit balances (subject to certain conditions) and provisions reduced by, among
other items, certain deductible long-term investments and fixed assets. The zakat rate on the zakat base is 2.578% if a zakat payer
is following the Gregorian financial year and 2.5% if a zakat payer is following Hirji financial year. The zakat rate on zakatable profit
is 2.5% regardless of the financial year (Gregorian or Hijri) followed by the zakat payer.
Other relevant laws and regulations
Petrochemical regulations
Pursuant to Royal Order No. 2448, dated 14/01/1442H (corresponding to September 2, 2020), the Ministry of Industry and Mineral
Resources now acts as the primary regulator for petrochemical operations in the Kingdom in place of the Ministry of Energy.
To date, the Ministry of Industry and Mineral Resources has not issued any regulations exercising this new regulatory authority
over the operations of Aramco or its affiliates.
Health and safety regulations
Health and safety matters associated with oil and gas activities are regulated through several Government authorities, including the
Ministry of Interior. In addition, the High Commission for Industrial Security issues safety and fire protection directives for industrial
facilities which set forth minimum requirements for health and safety management systems. Health and safety principles and
obligations are included in Part 8 (Protection against Occupational Hazards, Major Industrial Accidents and Work Injuries, and
Health and Social Services) of the Saudi Arabian Labor Law issued under Royal Decree No. M/51, dated 23/8/1426H (corresponding
to September 27, 2005), as amended, and Part 5 of the Social Insurance Law, enacted by Royal Decree No. M/22 dated 6/9/1389H
(corresponding to October 15, 1969) as amended by Royal Decree No. M/33 dated 3/9/1421H (corresponding to November 29, 2000).
Environmental regulations
The Kingdom introduced a new Environmental Law enacted by Royal Decree No. M/165 dated 19/11/1441H corresponding to July 10,
2020, and repealing the General Environmental Law, enacted by Royal Decree No. M/34, dated 28/7/1422H (corresponding to October
16, 2001). This law sets out wide-ranging prohibitions of pollution and contamination of environmental mediums and water resources
along with broad protections for plant covered lands, marine and coastal environments, wildlife and reservations. Additionally, the
Environmental Law addresses emergencies and environmental disasters, and details violation and penalties.
Apart from national environmental legislation, other regulations are applicable in certain areas of the Kingdom. The Royal Commission
for Jubail and Yanbu’ has issued detailed local environmental regulations applicable to facilities located within the Royal Commission
areas and contractors operating therein (i.e., the Jubail Industrial City Royal Commission Environmental Regulations of September 1999).
Aramco separately requires compliance with environmental standards in certain circumstances. For example, Aramco administers the oil
loading terminals at Ras Tanura, Ju’aymah and several smaller terminals independently of the Saudi Ports Authority.
notiamrofni
lagel
dna
laicnanfi
lanotiiddA
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 148]
146
Saudization
The Kingdom has promulgated a Saudization policy (Saudization) implemented by the Ministry of Human Resources and Social
Development. Saudization requires Saudi companies to ensure that a certain percentage of their workforce comprises Saudi nationals.
Further, investors in the energy sector are encouraged to abide by the Kingdom’s broad policies of ensuring a commitment to the
training and employment of Saudi nationals. The Nitaqat Saudization Program (the Nitaqat Program) was approved pursuant to the
Ministry of Labor and Social Development (predecessor to the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Development) Resolution
No. 4040, dated 12/10/1432H (corresponding to September 10, 2011), based on Council of Ministers Resolution No. 50, dated
21/5/1415H (corresponding to October 27, 1994), which was applied as at 12/10/1432H (corresponding to September 10, 2011).
The Ministry of Human Resources and Social Development established the Nitaqat Program to encourage establishments to hire
Saudi nationals. The Nitaqat Program assesses an establishment’s Saudization performance based on specific ranges of compliance,
which are platinum, green (which is further divided into low, medium and high ranges), yellow and red. Aramco has been classified
under the “High Green” category, which means that Aramco complies with the current Saudization requirements, which accordingly
allow the compliant companies to secure work visas.
Moreover, the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Development has approved a new amendment to the Nitaqat Program
under the “Nitaqat Mawzon” Program in order to improve the market’s performance and development and to eliminate
non-productive nationalization. It was intended to come into effect on 12/3/1438H (corresponding to December 11, 2016), but
in response to private sector demands for additional time to achieve the nationalization rate, the Ministry of Human Resources
and Social Development postponed the program until further notice and no new implementation date has been set. Under the
“Nitaqat Mawzon” program, points would be calculated based on five factors: (i) the nationalization rate; (ii) the average wage
for Saudi workers; (iii) the percentage of female nationalization; (iv) job sustainability for Saudi nationals; and (v) the percentage
of Saudi nationals with high wages. Currently, entities continue to be ranked on the basis of a system of rolling averages which
calculate average weekly “Saudization” over a 26-week period.
[Page 149]
147
Additional legal information
Aramco
The Company was established in the Kingdom as a company with limited liability by virtue of Royal Decree No. M/8 dated 4/4/1409H
(corresponding to November 13, 1988) to assume the privileges and rights of its predecessor. On January 1, 2018, the Company was
converted into a joint stock company pursuant to Council of Ministers Resolution No. 180 dated 1/4/1439H (corresponding to December
19, 2017) and registered in the city of Dhahran under commercial registration No. 2052101150 dated 11/07/1439H (corresponding to
March 28, 2018) with Saudi Arabian Oil Company as its official name. Its registered head office is located at P.O. Box 5000, Dhahran
31311, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Its share capital is sixty billion Saudi Riyals (SAR 60,000,000,000), consisting of two hundred billion
(200,000,000,000) fully paid ordinary shares with no par value. Aramco’s primary operating segments are Upstream and Downstream,
which are supported by corporate activities (for further details please refer to Section 3: Results and performance).
On December 11, 2019, the Company completed its IPO and its ordinary shares were listed on Tadawul. In connection with the IPO, the
Government, being the sole owner of the Company’s shares at such time, sold 3.45 billion ordinary shares, or 1.73% of the Company’s
share capital. In addition, concurrent with the IPO, the Company acquired 117.2 million of its ordinary shares from the Government
for a cash payment of SAR 3,750 million which are being classified as treasury shares. These shares are for use by the Company for its
employee share plans.
Material agreements
Aramco has entered into a number of agreements for the purposes of its business. The following is a summary of those agreements
that Aramco considers material to its business. Aramco believes that all such agreements, in addition to the key provisions thereunder,
have been included in this section and that there are no other agreements that are material in the context of its business. These
summaries do not purport to describe all the applicable terms and conditions of such agreements and are qualified in their entirety by
the respective agreements.
The Concession
Background
The Arabian American Oil Company Concession Agreement was ratified on 4/2/1352H (corresponding to May 29, 1933) and granted
Aramco’s predecessor certain exclusive rights, including the right to explore, drill, recover and treat crude oil and other hydrocarbons
located within certain areas of the Kingdom (which were revised and grew over time), with limited territorial exceptions. Pursuant to
Royal Decree No. M/8 dated 4/4/1409H (corresponding to November 13, 1988) approving Aramco’s original articles, Aramco enjoyed
all the privileges and rights provided under the Arabian American Oil Company Concession Agreement, and all subsequent
supplementary documents, agreements, governmental orders and decisions in connection therewith (collectively, the “Original
Concession”). Effective 6/4/1439H (corresponding to December 24, 2017), and in accordance with the Hydrocarbons Law, the
Government, represented by the Minister of MEIM (predecessor to the Minister of Energy), and Aramco entered into the revised
Concession Agreement (the “Concession”), which was adopted under Royal Decree No. (M/12) dated 18/1/1441H (corresponding to
September 17, 2019) and replaced and superseded in its entirety the Original Concession on such date (the “Concession Effective
Date”). Further, on 20/1/1441H (corresponding to September 19, 2019), and in accordance with the Hydrocarbons Law, the
Government, represented by the Minister of Energy, and Aramco entered into an amendment to the Concession, with effect from
January 1, 2020) (the “Concession Amendment”).
Grant of rights
The Government grants Aramco the following rights to be exercised at Aramco’s own responsibility during the term of the Concession:
• the exclusive right to explore, drill, prospect, appraise, develop, extract, recover and produce hydrocarbons in the Concession Area;
• the non-exclusive right to manufacture, refine and treat production and to market, sell, transport and export such production;
• the exclusive right to market and distribute hydrocarbons, petroleum products and LPG in the Kingdom, with Aramco’s commitment
to meeting all the domestic market’s needs for such products in accordance with the consumption requirements thereof through
domestic production or imports in accordance with laws issued by the Government;
• the right to build, own and operate relevant facilities and assets as may be necessary or desirable to perform Aramco’s operations
within the Reserved Areas;
• certain rights to acquire and use land, water and other natural products in connection with Aramco’s operations;
• the right to purchase, lease, import or otherwise obtain all materials, equipment and any other supplies required for Aramco’s
operations;
• the right to conduct such other activity related to the foregoing subject to the provisions of the Concession and applicable law; and
• the right to receive Government assistance in securing the rights granted in the Concession, obtaining permits, licenses and other
special approvals and obtaining access, rights of way and water rights from third parties necessary for Aramco’s operations.
notiamrofni
lagel
dna
laicnanfi
lanotiiddA
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 150]
148
Under the Concession, Aramco is required to obtain the necessary licenses, permits and approvals that may be required pursuant to
the Hydrocarbons Law, the Law of Gas Supplies and Pricing and the regulations issued pursuant to these laws. All hydrocarbons in the
Kingdom are owned by the Kingdom, and upon extraction or recovery of such hydrocarbons by Aramco, title to such hydrocarbons
shall automatically pass to Aramco at the ownership transfer point. Aramco has no rights to any natural resources existing in the
Concession Area other than hydrocarbons except as otherwise provided in the Concession.
The rights granted to Aramco under the Concession are subject to the Hydrocarbons Law and other applicable law, including
production decisions issued by the Government pursuant to its sovereign authority. Aramco may not sell to any entity any hydrocarbons
or derivatives therefrom in violation of decisions the Government considers necessary for the protection of supreme security interests for
the Kingdom in times of war or other emergency in international relations.
Term
The Concession will remain effective for 40 years from the Concession Effective Date, unless terminated earlier in accordance with
its terms.
The Government will issue a decision to extend the Concession for a period of 20 years on the 30th anniversary of the Concession
Effective Date, provided Aramco has fulfilled the following conditions: (a) Aramco has exerted reasonable efforts to maximize reserves
and their recovery in the Concession Area, taking into consideration production decisions and hydrocarbons market conditions; (b)
Aramco has conducted its operations in a manner that (i) is economically efficient, (ii) enhances the productivity of the reservoirs in the
long-term in the Concession Area and (iii) supports good management of hydrocarbons, in all cases, according to the Hydrocarbons
Law; and (c) Aramco generally has conducted its activities and operations in the Kingdom in an economically efficient manner thereby
enhancing the efficiency of the Kingdom’s economy.
If the Concession is extended as described in the previous paragraph, the Concession may be amended and extended for an additional
40 years following the 60th anniversary of the Concession Effective Date, if Aramco provides the Government with notice confirming
its intent to extend the Concession, at any time from the beginning of the 50th anniversary until the end of the 53rd anniversary of the
Concession Effective Date, provided that the parties undertake exclusive negotiations for a two-year period (which may be extended
or reduced by the parties), commencing at the end of the 53rd anniversary of the Concession Effective Date, to reach an agreement
on the terms and conditions of such amendment and extension. If the Government and Aramco are unable to reach agreement on the
amendment and extension during such exclusive negotiation period, and the Government elects to negotiate with any third party to
enter into an agreement with respect to any hydrocarbons activities or operations in the Concession Area, Aramco will have a priority
right to enter into an agreement with the Government under the same terms and conditions as agreed between the Government and
such third party, provided that Aramco notifies the Government of its desire to exercise the priority right within 120 days of its receipt
of a written notice from the Government that includes the entire draft agreement with such third party with respect to such
hydrocarbons activities and operations.
Royalty and taxes
As at December 31, 2016, the royalty payable to the Government under the Original Concession consisted of an amount equal to (a)
20% of the value of crude oil and the crude equivalent of refined products sold as exports, (b) 12.5% of the proceeds received from
the sale of gas, (c) 12.5% of $0.035 per mmBTU of natural gas processed in the production of gas derivatives and (d) a certain amount
per quantity of crude oil and the crude equivalent of refined products sold in-Kingdom. Pursuant to these requirements, the Company
incurred royalties of SAR 101.3 billion ($27.0 billion) for the year ended December 31, 2016.
Commencing January 1, 2017, royalties payable to the Government with respect to the Company’s operations were calculated as follows:
• With respect to the Company’s production of crude oil and condensates, including those used by the Company in its operations,
royalties were calculated based on a progressive scheme applied to crude oil and condensate production value. Production was
valued based on the Company’s official selling prices. An effective royalty rate was applied to production value and was based each
month on the average daily price quotes for Brent crude on the Intercontinental Exchange (or any successor exchange) for each day
during such period. The effective royalty rate was determined based on a baseline rate of 20% applied to the value of production at
prices up to $70 per barrel, a marginal rate of 40% applied to the value of production at prices above $70 per barrel up to $100 per
barrel and a marginal rate of 50% applied to the value of production at prices above $100 per barrel.
• With respect to the Company’s production of natural gas, ethane and NGL, excluding those volumes used by the Company for
upstream operations and related operations (including transportation, pipelines and storage and export facilities, fractionation
plants, gas and NGL plants), royalties are calculated based on a flat royalty rate of 12.5% applied to a factor established by the
Ministry of Energy. As at December 31, 2020, the factor to which this royalty is applied is $0.035 per mmBTU for NGL (propane,
butane and natural gasoline) and $0.00 per mmBTU for natural gas (methane) and ethane. The Minister of Energy may amend the
price on which such values are based, taking into account the price that achieves the targeted internal rate of return set by the
Minister of Energy in coordination with the Company.
[Page 151]
149
Commencing January 1, 2020, the Concession Amendment amended the royalties payable to the Government with respect to the
Company’s production of crude oil and condensates, including those used by the Company in its operations, so that the effective royalty
rate is determined based on a baseline rate of 15% applied to the value of production at prices up to $70 per barrel, a marginal rate of
45% applied to the value of production at prices above $70 per barrel up to $100 per barrel and a marginal rate of 80% applied to the
value of production at prices above $100 per barrel.
In order to increase gas production to meet the needs of the Kingdom, the Government may choose not to collect royalties on natural
gas, NGL (including ethane) and condensates for a period specified by the Government with respect to any field as required by the
economics of such field’s development. Pursuant to the Ministry of Energy’s authority under the Concession, on February 25, 2018,
the Ministry of Energy decided not to collect royalties from the Company on condensate production for a grace period of five years
beginning on January 1, 2018. On September 17, 2019, the Ministry of Energy issued Ministerial Resolution No. 1/422/1441, dated
18/1/1441H (corresponding to September 17, 2019), which extends the period for which the Company will not be obligated to pay
royalties on condensate production after the current five-year period for an additional 10-year period, which may be further extended
for subsequent 10-year periods, unless the Government determines the economics impacting gas field development do not warrant
such an extension.
The Government has the option to take all or part of the royalty in-kind from the produced hydrocarbons.
Acquisition of 70% equity interest in SABIC
On June 16, 2020, Aramco acquired the PIF’s 70% equity interest in SABIC for total consideration of $69.1 billion. SABIC operates in
over 50 countries and produces a range of chemicals. Aramco believes that purchasing this majority interest in SABIC advances its
strategy to increase the proportion of petrochemicals production in its downstream portfolio and supports Aramco’s downstream
growth ambitions. In addition, Aramco believes that the acquisition facilitates the application of SABIC’s expertise in the chemicals
industry to Aramco’s existing and future integrated downstream facilities.
The March 27, 2019, purchase agreement provided that the purchase price for the acquisition would be paid on the closing date in
the form of a cash payment equal to 50% of the purchase price (to be adjusted for certain expenses) and a seller loan in an amount
equal to 50% of the purchase price with the last payment due on or before December 31, 2021. On October 6, 2019, Aramco and the
PIF agreed to amend the payment terms to provide that, on the closing date, 36% of the purchase price (to be adjusted for certain
expenses) would be paid in cash and 64% would be paid in the form of a seller loan with the last payment due on or before
September 30, 2025.
On June 16, 2020, Aramco and the PIF agreed to further amend the payment terms to provide that the entire purchase price would be
paid over several installments pursuant to a seller loan provided by the PIF. A loan payment of $7.0 billion was paid on August 2, 2020.
Future loan payments, which are represented by promissory notes, are payable between April 7, 2021, and April 7, 2028 (the last
payment), as follows:
i. on or before April 7, 2021, an amount equal to $5.0 billion;
ii. o n or before April 7, 2022, an amount equal to $8.5 billion plus a loan charge of $500 million (subject to reduction by $300 million
in the event that the accelerated payment described below is made);
iii. on or before April 7, 2023, an amount equal to $10.5 billion plus a loan charge of $500 million;
iv. on or before April 7, 2024, an amount equal to $10.5 billion plus a loan charge of $600 million;
v. on or before April 7, 2025, an amount equal to $10.5 billion plus a loan charge of $800 million;
vi. o n or before April 7, 2026, an amount equal to $17.1 billion (provided that (a) $3.0 billion of such amount is subject to acceleration
as described below and (b) such amount will be reduced by the amount of any withholding taxes and similar amounts that Aramco
incurs with respect to payments made under any promissory note as a result of the PIF’s transfer thereof to a transferee who is not
tax resident in the Kingdom) plus a loan charge of $1.5 billion;
vii. o n or before April 7, 2027, a loan charge of $1.0 billion (subject to reduction to reflect certain withholding amounts as described
above); and
viii. o n or before April 7, 2028, a loan charge of $1.0 billion (subject to reduction to reflect certain withholding amounts as described
above).
In the event that the average Brent price during 2021 meets or exceeds $60.0 per barrel and Aramco’s average daily production of
crude oil during 2021 exceeds ten million barrels per day, Aramco will be required to pay $3.0 billion of the payment otherwise due
in April 2026 on April 7, 2022 (the “Early Payment Event”).
notiamrofni
lagel
dna
laicnanfi
lanotiiddA
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 152]
150
Subject to the exceptions set forth below, the promissory notes are freely transferable and assignable and may be pledged by the PIF.
However, if the PIF receives any offer or commitment of financing which would include a transfer of any promissory note, Aramco may
within 30 days of receiving notice of the offer or commitment, notify the PIF in writing of its intent to purchase all or a portion of the
promissory notes to be transferred on the same terms. To the extent Aramco does not elect to purchase the promissory notes to be
transferred, the PIF may transfer such promissory note during the subsequent 120-day period. In addition, the PIF may not transfer,
assign or pledge prior to April 8, 2022, promissory notes with aggregate initial principal outstanding balances of (i) $300 million and
a payment date of April 7, 2022, and (ii) $3.0 billion and a payment date of April 7, 2026; provided that, if Aramco determines that
the Early Payment Event will not occur by April 8, 2022, it is required to notify the PIF and the restrictions on transfer will terminate.
Each such promissory note must be surrendered for cancellation in the event the accelerated payment described above is made.
Furthermore, the PIF may not transfer, assign or pledge at any time promissory notes with aggregate initial principal outstanding
balances of (i) $3.5 billion and a payment date of April 7, 2026, (ii) $250 million and a payment date of April 7, 2027, and (iii) $250
million and a payment date of April 7, 2028. Aramco currently intends to repay the promissory notes in a phased manner through
cash from operations, external debt financing or a combination thereof.
As part of the June 16, 2020, amendment to the purchase agreement, Aramco agreed to enter into foreign exchange transactions with
banking institutions mutually agreed to between Aramco and the PIF to exchange U.S. Dollars for Saudi Riyals. The aggregate amount
of these foreign exchange transactions is (i) up to $2.0 billion between June 16, and August 2, 2020, (ii) up to $3.0 billion in 2021 and
(iii) up to $2.0 billion in 2022. In connection therewith, between June 16, and August 2, 2020, Aramco exchanged an aggregate
amount of $2.0 billion for Saudi Riyals.
Intellectual property
Aramco assesses, develops and incorporates new technology in a manner tailored to Aramco’s operations to protect business interests,
enhance its operational efficiency, increase profitability and reduce the environmental impact of its operations. The scale of Aramco’s
hydrocarbon reserves and operational capabilities enable it to realize significant benefits and value from otherwise marginal
technological benefits.
Aramco focuses its technology initiatives in two primary areas: upstream and downstream. In addition, Aramco is working on several
focused initiatives, including reductions in the environmental impact of operations and advancements in digital technologies.
Upstream technology development is directed primarily to improving methods for discovering new hydrocarbon reserves, improving
oil recoveries, increasing productivity, discovering novel catalysts and reducing lifting costs. Downstream technology development is
dedicated primarily to maximizing value across the hydrocarbon chain and finding new and improved methods of producing products.
Aramco’s environmental impact initiatives include efforts aimed at producing low carbon intensity crude oil, advancing efficient
transport and driving high-impact low carbon intensity solutions. Aramco’s digital technologies include innovations that leverage
machine learning, artificial intelligence, and data analytics.
Litigation
From time to time, Aramco is subject to various claims, lawsuits, regulatory investigations and other legal matters arising in the
ordinary course of business, including contractual claims relating to construction projects and agreements to render services
undertaken by Aramco, claims for title to land and environmental claims. Additionally, Aramco in the past has been subject to
antitrust claims.
Furthermore, exports of crude oil, refined products and petrochemicals by Aramco or its affiliates to foreign countries may be affected
by litigation, regulatory actions, investigations, disputes or agreements that lead to the imposition of import trade measures, including
anti-dumping and countervailing duties, safeguard measures, import licensing and customs requirements, and new or increased
tariffs, quotas or embargos. The possibility and effect of any such measures will depend on the domestic laws in the relevant country
to which the applicable products are being exported and applicable international trade agreements. Foreign countries may take such
measures for political or other reasons, including reasons unrelated to Aramco actions or operations.
The outcome of litigation and other legal matters, including government investigations or other trade actions, is inherently uncertain.
Aramco believes it has valid defenses to the legal matters currently pending against it as a party. Certain trade actions that do not
involve Aramco as a party may instead involve its products or industry, other products or industries impacting its operations, or the
countries in which it operates. Trade actions may be taken without prior notice, or with retroactive effect. Actual outcomes of these
legal, regulatory and other proceedings may materially differ from current estimates. To date, none of these types of litigation or
trade matters has had a material impact on Aramco’s operations or financial position. Except with respect to the Al-Qarqani case
as described in Section 5: Risk, Aramco believes that it is not presently a party to any legal, regulatory or other proceedings that,
if determined adversely to it, could reasonably be expected, individually or taken together, to have a material adverse effect on
Aramco’s business, financial position or results of operations.
[Page 153]
151
Debt instruments issued by subsidiaries
Balance as at
December 31,
All amounts in millions SAR unless otherwise stated Debt instrument 20201
Motiva Enterprise LLC Debentures 7,249
Sadara Chemical Company Sukuk 5,760
Saudi Aramco Sukuk Company Sukuk 11,250
Saudi Aramco Total Refining and Petrochemical Company ("SATORP") Sukuk 2,250
Saudi Basic Industries Corporation ("SABIC") Debentures 11,970
S-Oil Corporation Debentures 11,021
1. Represents 100% of the balance as reported in the respective subsidiaries’ balance sheet.
Shares issued by subsidiaries
The Company holds direct or indirect ownership in the following domestic and foreign subsidiaries:
Share capital
Place of business /
country of Percentage Principal Amount
Name of entity incorporation ownership business activity Currency (millions)
A. Wholly owned
4 Rivers Energy LLC USA 100% Retail fuel operations USD –
People’s
Aramco (Beijing) Venture Management Republic of
Consultant Co. Ltd China 100% Investment USD 2.1
Aramco Affiliated Services Company USA 100% Support services USD 0.0
Aramco Asia India Private Limited India 100% Purchasing and other services INR 2.9
Aramco Asia Japan K.K. Japan 100% Purchasing and other services JPY 738.2
Aramco Asia Korea Ltd. South Korea 100% Purchasing and other services KRW 4,302.9
Aramco Asia Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore 100% Purchasing and other services USD 3.9
Aramco Associated Company USA 100% Aircraft operations USD –
Aramco Capital Company, LLC USA 100% Aircraft leasing USD –
Aramco Chemicals Company Saudi Arabia 100% Chemicals SAR 75.0
People’s
Aramco Far East (Beijing) Business Republic of Petrochemical purchasing/sales
Services Co., Ltd. China 100% and other services USD 25.0
Aramco Financial Services Company USA 100% Financing USD 0.0
Aramco Gulf Operations Company Ltd. Saudi Arabia 100% Production and sale of crude oil USD 0.3
Research and
Aramco Innovations LLC Russia 100% commercialization USD 0.2
British Virgin
Aramco International Company Limited Islands 100% Support services USD 0.0
Aramco Lubricants and Retail Company
(formerly: Saudi Aramco Retail Company) Saudi Arabia 100% Retail fuel marketing SAR 0.2
Aramco Overseas Company Azerbaijan Azerbaijan 100% Support services USD 0.0
Aramco Overseas Company B.V. Netherlands 100% Purchasing and other services USD 40.1
Personnel and other
Aramco Overseas Company Spain, S.L. Spain 100% support services USD 0.0
Personnel and other
Aramco Overseas Company UK, Limited United Kingdom 100% support services USD 0.0
Personnel and other
Aramco Overseas Egypt LLC Egypt 100% support services EGP 0.1
Aramco Overseas Indonesia PT PMA ("AOI") Indonesia 100% Project management support IDR 2,500.0
Personnel and other
Aramco Overseas Malaysia Sdn. Bhd Malaysia 100% support services USD 0.1
Petrochemical
Aramco Performance Materials LLC USA 100% manufacture and sales USD 0.9
Purchasing, engineering and
Aramco Services Company USA 100% other services USD 0.0
notiamrofni
lagel
dna
laicnanfi
lanotiiddA
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 154]
152
Shares issued by subsidiaries continued
Share capital
Place of business /
country of Percentage Principal Amount
Name of entity incorporation ownership business activity Currency (millions)
Aramco Shared Benefits Company USA 100% Benefit administration USD 0.0
Importing, exporting and
trading of crude oil, refined
Aramco Trading Company Saudi Arabia 100% and chemical products USD 35.0
Importing/exporting
Aramco Trading Fujairah FZE UAE 100% refined products AED 0.2
Importing/exporting
Aramco Trading Limited United Kingdom 100% refined products GBP 0.0
Aramco Trading Singapore PTE-LTD Singapore 100% Marketing and sales support USD 4.5
Aramco Venture Management Consultant
Company LLC (“AVM”) USA 100% Consulting services n/a n/a
Aramco Ventures Holdings Limited Guernsey 100% Investment USD –
Aramco Ventures Investments Limited Guernsey 100% Investment USD –
Development, manufacture,
and marketing of
ARLANXEO Holding B.V. Netherlands 100% high-performance rubber USD 0.0
Development, manufacture,
and marketing of
ARLANXEO Belgium N.V. Belgium 100% high-performance rubber EUR 108.4
Development, manufacture,
and marketing of
ARLANXEO Branch Offices B.V Netherlands 100% high-performance rubber EUR 0.1
Development, manufacture,
and marketing of
ARLANXEO Brasil S.A. Brazil 100% high-performance rubber BRL 1,264.0
Development, manufacture,
and marketing of
ARLANXEO Canada Inc. Canada 100% high-performance rubber USD 46.9
Development, manufacture,
and marketing of
ARLANXEO Deutschland GmbH Germany 100% high-performance rubber EUR 0.0
Development, manufacture,
and marketing of
ARLANXEO Elastomères Frances S.A.S. France 100% high-performance rubber EUR 4.0
Development, manufacture,
and marketing of
ARLANXEO Emulsion Rubber France S.A.S. France 100% high-performance rubber EUR 19.1
People's Development, manufacture,
ARLANXEO High Performance Elastomers Republic of and marketing of
(Changzhou) Co., Ltd. China 100% high-performance rubber CNY 1,143.2
Development, manufacture,
and marketing of
ARLANXEO India Private Limited India 100% high-performance rubber INR 22.5
Development, manufacture,
and marketing of
ARLANXEO Netherlands B.V. Netherlands 100% high-performance rubber EUR 30.4
Development, manufacture,
and marketing of
ARLANXEO Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore 100% high-performance rubber USD 378.6
Development, manufacture,
and marketing of
ARLANXEO Switzerland S.A. Switzerland 100% high-performance rubber USD 0.7
Development, manufacture,
and marketing of
ARLANXEO USA LLC USA 100% high-performance rubber USD –
Development, manufacture,
and marketing of
Petroflex Trading S.A. Uruguay 100% high-performance rubber USD –
[Page 155]
153
Shares issued by subsidiaries continued
Share capital
Place of business /
country of Percentage Principal Amount
Name of entity incorporation ownership business activity Currency (millions)
Aurora Capital Holdings LLC USA 100% Real estate holdings USD –
Bolanter Corporation N.V. Curaçao 100% Crude oil storage USD 0.0
Briar Rose Ventures LLC USA 100% Real estate holdings USD –
Canyon Lake Holdings LLC USA 100% Retail fuel operations USD –
Petrochemical
Excellent Performance Chemicals Company Saudi Arabia 100% manufacture and sales USD 0.3
Investment management of
Investment Management Company Saudi Arabia 100% post-employment benefit plans USD 0.1
Motiva Chemicals LLC USA 100% Petrochemical manufacture USD –
Motiva Enterprises LLC USA 100% Refining and marketing USD 8,008.7
Motiva Pipeline LLC USA 100% Refining USD –
Purchasing and sale of
petroleum goods
Motiva Trading LLC USA 100% and other services USD –
Mukamala International Investments Company Saudi Arabia 100% Investment USD –
Mukamala Oil Field Services Limited Company Saudi Arabia 100% Oil field services USD 461.1
Pandlewood Corporation N.V. Curaçao 100% Financing USD 0.0
Pedernales Ventures II LLC ("PVII") USA 100% Investment USD 0.0
Pedernales Ventures LLC USA 100% Retail fuel operations USD –
SAEV Europe Ltd. United Kingdom 100% Investment USD 0.0
SAEV Guernsey 1 Ltd. Guernsey 100% Investment USD 2.4
SAEV Guernsey Holdings Ltd. Guernsey 100% Investment USD –
Saudi Aramco Asia Company Ltd. Saudi Arabia 100% Investment USD 0.1
Saudi Aramco Capital Company Limited Guernsey 100% Investment USD –
Saudi Aramco Development Company Saudi Arabia 100% Investment USD 0.1
Saudi Aramco Energy Ventures – U.S. LLC USA 100% Investment USD 0.0
Saudi Aramco Energy Ventures LLC Saudi Arabia 100% Investment USD 0.1
Saudi Aramco Entrepreneurship Center Company Ltd. Saudi Arabia 100% Financing SAR 0.5
Saudi Aramco Entrepreneurship Venture Company,
Ltd. Saudi Arabia 100% Investment SAR 0.5
Saudi Aramco Jubail Refinery Company Saudi Arabia 100% Refining USD 426.7
Saudi Aramco Power Company Saudi Arabia 100% Power generation USD 0.0
Saudi Aramco Sukuk Company Saudi Arabia 100% Investment SAR 0.5
Research and
Saudi Aramco Technologies Saudi Arabia 100% commercialization USD 0.1
Research and
Saudi Aramco Upstream Technology Company Saudi Arabia 100% commercialization USD 0.1
Saudi Petroleum International, Inc. USA 100% Marketing support services USD 0.0
Marketing support and
Saudi Petroleum Overseas, Ltd. United Kingdom 100% tanker services GBP 0.0
British Virgin Marketing support and
Saudi Petroleum, Ltd. Islands 100% tanker services USD 0.0
Saudi Refining, Inc. USA 100% Refining and marketing USD 0.0
Stellar Insurance, Ltd. Bermuda 100% Insurance USD 0.1
Marine management
Vela International Marine Ltd. Liberia 100% and transportation USD 0.0
Wisayah Global Investment Company Saudi Arabia 100% Financial support SAR 0.5
notiamrofni
lagel
dna
laicnanfi
lanotiiddA
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 156]
154
Shares issued by subsidiaries continued
Share capital
Place of business /
country of Percentage Principal Amount
Name of entity incorporation ownership business activity Currency (millions)
B. Unconsolidated structured entity
Energy City Development Company
("SPARK") Saudi Arabia n/a Industrial development n/a n/a
Energy City Operating Company
("SPARK") Saudi Arabia n/a Industrial development n/a n/a
C. Non-wholly owned1
Aramco Training Services Company USA 49% Training USD 0.0
People's Development, manufacture,
ARLANXEO-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical Republic and marketing of
Industries Co., Ltd. of China 50% high-performance rubber CNY 288.3
Johns Hopkins Aramco Healthcare Company Saudi Arabia 80% Health care USD 25.0
Production and sale of
Saudi Aramco Base Oil Company – LUBEREF Saudi Arabia 70% petroleum based lubricants USD 0.0
Saudi Aramco Nabors Drilling Company Saudi Arabia 50% Drilling USD 40.0
Saudi Aramco Rowan Offshore Drilling Company Saudi Arabia 50% Drilling USD 50.0
S-Oil Corporation South Korea 61.6% Refining USD 265.2
S-Oil Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore 61.6% Marketing support SGD 1.2
The Independent Purchasing and sale
S-International Ltd. State of Samoa 61.6% of petroleum goods USD 0.0
Saudi Basic Industries Corporation ("SABIC") Saudi Arabia 70% Holding SAR 30,000.0
SABIC Luxembourg S.àr.l. (“SLUX”) Luxembourg 70% Holding USD 34.4
SABIC Industrial Investments Company (“SIIC”) Saudi Arabia 70% Holding SAR 300.0
Arabian Petrochemical Company (“PETROKEMYA”)2 Saudi Arabia 70% Toller SAR 1,955.5
Saudi Iron and Steel Company (“HADEED”) Saudi Arabia 70% Metals SAR 1,070.0
SABIC Investment and Local Content Development
Company (“NUSANED”) Saudi Arabia 70% Investment SAR 10.0
SABIC Agri-Nutrients Investment Company
(“SANIC”) Saudi Arabia 70% Agri-Nutrients SAR 0.0
International Shipping and Transportation Co.
(“ISTC”) Saudi Arabia 70% Support services SAR 40.0
SABIC Supply Chain Services Limited Company
(“SSCS”) Saudi Arabia 70% Petrochemical SAR 0.5
Saudi Specialty Chemicals Company (“SP. CHEM”)2 Saudi Arabia 70% Petrochemical SAR 220.0
Saudi Organometallic Chemicals Company (“SOCC”)2 Saudi Arabia 70% Petrochemical SAR 90.0
National Chemical Fertiliser Company
(“IBN AL-BAYTAR”) Saudi Arabia 50% Agri-Nutrients SAR 494.7
National Industrial Gases Company (“GAS”) Saudi Arabia 49% Toller SAR 248.0
Yanbu National Petrochemical Company
(“YANSAB”) Saudi Arabia 36.4% Toller SAR 5,625.0
Saudi Methanol Company (“AR-RAZI”) Saudi Arabia 52.5% Toller SAR 259.0
Al-Jubail Fertiliser Company (“AL BAYRONI”) Saudi Arabia 35% Agri-Nutrients SAR 671.5
National Methanol Company (“IBN-SINA”) Saudi Arabia 35% Toller SAR 558.0
Arabian Industrial Fibers Company (“IBN RUSHD”) Saudi Arabia 33.6% Toller SAR 2,000.0
SABIC Agri-Nutrients Company (“SABIC
AGRI-NUTRIENTS”) (formerly: Saudi Arabian
Fertilizer Company ("SAFCO")) Saudi Arabia 30% Agri-Nutrients SAR 4,166.7
SABIC Industrial Catalyst Company (“SABCAT”) Saudi Arabia n/a3 Petrochemical SAR 0.50
Saudi Carbon Fibre Company (“SCFC”) Saudi Arabia n/a3 Petrochemical SAR 0.50
Saudi Japanese Acrylonitrile Company
(“SHROUQ”) Saudi Arabia n/a3 Petrochemical SAR 171.2
Petrochemical
SABIC Innovative Plastics Argentina SRL Argentina 70% manufacture and sales USD 11.0
[Page 157]
155
Shares issued by subsidiaries continued
Share capital
Place of business /
country of Percentage Principal Amount
Name of entity incorporation ownership business activity Currency (millions)
Petrochemical
SHPP Argentina SRL Argentina 70% manufacture and sales USD 0.0
SABIC Australia Pty Ltd. Australia 70% Holding AUD 110.2
SABIC Innovative Plastics GmbH & Co. KG Austria 70% Agent EUR 164.7
SABIC Innovative Plastics South America-Indústria Petrochemical
e Comércio de Plásticos Ltda Brazil 70% manufacture and sales BRL 318.8
Petrochemical
SHPP South America Comércio de Plásticos Ltda Brazil 70% manufacture and sales BRL 16.3
NV Pijpleiding Antwerpen-Limburg-Luik ("PALL") Belgium 70% Support services EUR 12.3
SABIC Belgium NV Belgium 70% Petrochemical EUR 210.1
SHPP Canada, Inc. Canada 70% Petrochemical CAD 176.7
Petrochemical
SABIC Petrochemicals Canada, Inc. Canada 70% manufacture and sales CAD 0.0
People's
Republic of
SABIC Innovative Plastics (China) Co., Ltd. China 70% Petrochemical USD 392.2
People's
Republic of Petrochemical
SABIC Innovative Plastics (Chongqing) Co., Ltd. China 70% manufacture and sales USD 112.5
People's
SABIC Innovative Plastics International Trading Republic of
(Shanghai) Ltd. China 70% Reseller USD 1.2
People's
SABIC Innovative Plastics Management (Shanghai) Republic of
Co., Ltd. China 70% Support services CNY 7.5
People's
Republic of
SHPP (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. China 70% Petrochemical USD 432.7
People's
Republic of
SABIC (Shanghai) Trading Co. Ltd. China 70% Reseller CNY 16.9
People's
Republic of
SABIC (China) Research & Development Co. Ltd. China 70% T&I CNY 170.6
People's
Republic of
SABIC China Holding Co. Ltd. China 70% Petrochemical CNY –
SABIC Innovative Plastics Czech s.r.o. Czech Republic 70% Agent CZK 0.0
SHPP Czech s.r.o. Czech Republic 70% Reseller EUR 0.0
SABIC Innovative Plastics Denmark Aps Denmark 70% Agent DKK 0.1
SABIC Nordic A/S Denmark 70% Agent DKK 2.0
SHPP Denmark Aps Denmark 70% Reseller EUR 0.0
SABIC Innovative Plastics Finland OY Finland 70% Agent EUR 3.0
SHPP Finland Oy Finland 70% Reseller EUR 0.0
SABIC France S.A.S. France 70% Reseller EUR 1.9
SABIC Innovative Plastics France S.A.S. France 70% Agent EUR 4.5
SHPP France S.A.S. France 70% Reseller EUR 9.8
SABIC Deutschland GmbH Germany 70% Reseller EUR 0.1
SABIC Holding Deutschland GmbH Germany 70% Holding EUR 0.1
SABIC Innovative Plastics GmbH Germany 70% Agent EUR 0.5
SABIC Innovative Plastics Holding Germany GmbH Germany 70% Holding EUR 0.3
SABIC Polyolefine GmbH Germany 70% Toller EUR 0.1
SHPP Germany GmbH Germany 70% Reseller EUR 0.1
SABIC Greece M.E.P.E. Greece 70% Agent EUR 0.1
notiamrofni
lagel
dna
laicnanfi
lanotiiddA
| 0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 158]
156
Shares issued by subsidiaries continued
Share capital
Place of business /
country of Percentage Principal Amount
Name of entity incorporation ownership business activity Currency (millions)
SABIC Innovative Plastics Hong Kong Ltd. Hong Kong 70% Reseller USD 279.7
SABIC Innovative Plastics SIT Holding Ltd. Hong Kong 70% Holding USD 27.4
SABIC Innovative Plastics Taiwan Holding Ltd. Hong Kong 70% Petrochemical USD 92.7
SHPP Hong Kong Hong Kong 70% Reseller USD 12.7
SABIC Hungary Kft. Hungary 70% Agent HUF 0.1
SABIC Innovative Plastics Kereskedelmi Kft. Hungary 70% Agent HUF 0.1
SHPP Hungary Kft. Hungary 70% Reseller EUR 0.0
SABIC India Pvt Ltd. India 70% Agent INR 3.3
Petrochemical
SABIC Innovative Plastics India Private Ltd. India 70% manufacture and sales INR 34.4
SABIC R&T Pvt Ltd. India 70% T&I INR 259.7
Petrochemical
High Performance Plastics India Pvt Ltd. India 70% manufacture and sales INR 0.0
SABIC Innovative Plastics Italy Srl Italy 70% Toller EUR 69.8
SABIC Italia Srl Italy 70% Reseller EUR 0.5
SABIC Sales Italy Srl Italy 70% Agent EUR 0.0
SHPP Italy Srl Italy 70% Toller EUR 0.0
SHPP Sales Italy Srl Italy 70% Reseller EUR 0.0
Petrochemical
SHPP Japan LLC Japan 70% manufacture and sales JPY 276.8
SABIC Petrochemicals Japan LLC Japan 70% Petrochemical JPY 3.63
SABIC Korea Ltd. South Korea 70% Petrochemical KRW 86.7
SHPP Korea Ltd. South Korea 70% Reseller KRW 63.6
SABIC Innovative Plastics Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia 70% Agent MYR 44.7
SHPP Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia 70% Reseller USD 0.9
Petrochemical
SABIC Innovative Plastics Mexico S de RL de CV Mexico 70% manufacture and sales USD 36.2
SABIC Innovative Plastics Servicios Mexico
S de RL de CV Mexico 70% Support services MXN 1.6
High Performance Plastics Manufacturing Mexico Petrochemical
S de RL de CV Mexico 70% manufacture and sales USD 13.8
High Performance Plastics Service Mexico
S de RL de CV Mexico 70% Support services MXN 0.0
Petrochemical
BV Snij-Unie HiFi Netherlands 70% manufacture and sales EUR 0.0
SABIC Capital B.V. Netherlands 70% Financing USD 0.1
SABIC Capital I B.V. Netherlands 70% Financing USD 0.1
Petrochemical Pipeline Services B.V. Netherlands 70% Support services EUR 13.6
SABIC Europe B.V. Netherlands 70% Holding EUR 747.1
SABIC Global Technologies B.V. Netherlands 70% T&I USD 0.1
SABIC International Holdings B.V. Netherlands 70% Holding USD 727.9
Principal (Manufacturing,
SABIC Innovative Plastics B.V. Netherlands 70% Sales, R&D) EUR 648.6
SABIC Innovative Plastics GP B.V. Netherlands 70% Holding USD 0.1
SABIC Innovative Plastics Holding B.V. Netherlands 70% Holding USD 0.1
SABIC Innovative Plastics Utilities B.V. Netherlands 70% Support services EUR 0.0
SABIC Licensing B.V. Netherlands 70% T&I USD 0.1
SABIC Limburg B.V. Netherlands 70% Support services EUR 0.1
SABIC Sales Europe B.V. Netherlands 70% Reseller EUR 0.5
Principal (Manufacturing,
SABIC Petrochemicals B.V. Netherlands 70% Sales, R&D) EUR 192.1
SABIC Ventures B.V. Netherlands 70% T&I USD 0.1
[Page 159]
157
Shares issued by subsidiaries continued
Share capital
Place of business /
country of Percentage Principal Amount
Name of entity incorporation ownership business activity Currency (millions)
SABIC Mining B.V. Netherlands 70% Holding USD 0.1
SHPP Holding B.V. Netherlands 70% Holding USD 0.0
SHPP Global Technologies B.V. Netherlands 70% Petrochemical USD 0.0
SHPP Ventures B.V. Netherlands 70% T&I USD 0.0
SHPP Capital B.V. Netherlands 70% Financing USD 0.0
SHPP Capital I B.V. Netherlands 70% Financing USD 0.0
SHPP Capital II B.V. Netherlands 70% Financing USD 0.0
Principal (Manufacturing,
SHPP B.V. Netherlands 70% Sales, R&D) EUR 0.0
SHPP Sales B.V. Netherlands 70% Reseller EUR 0.0
SABIC Innovative Plastics Poland Sp. Z o.o. Poland 70% Agent PLN 1.8
SABIC Poland Sp. Z o.o. Poland 70% Agent PLN 0.1
SHPP Poland Sp. Z o.o. Poland 70% Reseller EUR 0.0
LLC SABIC Eastern Europe Russia 70% Agent RUB 0.0
SABIC Innovative Plastics Rus OOO Russia 70% Agent RUB 0.0
SHPP Russia OOO Russia 70% Agent RUB 0.0
SABIC Innovative Plastics (SEA) Pte. Ltd. Singapore 70% Reseller USD 346.8
SABIC Innovative Plastics Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore 70% Holding USD 2,370.0
Petrochemical
SHPP Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore 70% manufacture and sales USD 863.4
SABIC Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. Singapore 70% Reseller USD 0.2
SHPP Slovakia s.r.o. Slovakia 70% Reseller EUR 0.0
SABIC Innovative Plastics España ScpA Spain 70% Toller EUR 2,603.6
SABIC Innovative Plastics GP BV, Sociedad
en Comandita Spain 70% Holding EUR 15.8
SABIC Sales Spain SL Spain 70% Agent EUR 0.0
SABIC Marketing Ibérica S.A. Spain 70% Reseller EUR 0.3
SHPP Manufacturing SL Spain 70% Toller EUR 0.0
SHPP Marketing Spain SL Spain 70% Reseller EUR 0.0
Saudi Innovative Plastics Sweden AB Sweden 70% Agent SEK 1.6
SABIC Innovative Plastics (Thailand) Co. Ltd. Thailand 70% Petrochemical THB –
SABIC Thailand Co. Ltd. Thailand 70% Petrochemical THB 50.2
SHPP Petrokimya Ticaret Ltd Sirketi Turkey 70% Marketing and sales support EUR 0.0
SABIC Global Ltd. United Kingdom 70% Holding GBP 166.3
SABIC Tees Holdings Ltd. United Kingdom 70% Holding EUR 1,245.0
SHPP Manufacturing UK Ltd. United Kingdom 70% Petrochemical GBP 80.1
SABIC Innovative Plastics Ltd. United Kingdom 70% Agent GBP 17.5
SABIC UK Ltd. United Kingdom 70% Reseller GBP –
Investment management of
SABIC UK Pension Trustee Ltd. United Kingdom 70% post-employment benefit plans GBP –
SABIC UK Petrochemicals Ltd. United Kingdom 70% Toller GBP 2,576.3
SHPP Sales UK Ltd. United Kingdom 70% Reseller EUR 0.0
Exatec, LLC USA 70% T&I USD 286.9
Petrochemical
Mt. Vernon Phenol Plant Partnership USA 35.7% manufacture and sales USD 91.9
SABIC Americas Inc. USA 70% Reseller USD 7.0
SABIC US Holdings LP USA 70% Holding USD 13,968.0
SABIC Innovative Plastics Mt. Vernon, LLC USA 70% Toller USD 8,250.0
Principal (Manufacturing,
SABIC Innovative Plastics US LLC USA 70% Sales, R&D) USD 12,160.4
notiamrofni
lagel
dna
laicnanfi
lanotiiddA
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 160]
158
Shares issued by subsidiaries continued
Share capital
Place of business /
country of Percentage Principal Amount
Name of entity incorporation ownership business activity Currency (millions)
Petrochemical
SABIC Petrochemicals Holding US, Inc. USA 70% manufacture and sales USD –
SABIC Ventures US Holdings LLC USA 70% T&I USD 231.0
SABIC US Projects LLC USA 70% Projects USD 56.3
SABIC Americas Growth LLC USA 70% Projects USD –
SABIC US Methanol LLC USA 70% Projects USD –
Principal (Manufacturing,
SHPP US LLC USA 70% Sales, R&D) USD 0.0
SABIC Uruguay SA Uruguay 70% Agent USD 0.0
SABIC Vietnam Ltd. Vietnam 70% Agent VND 1.9
SHPP Vietnam Co Ltd Vietnam 70% Petrochemical VND –
SABCAP Insurance Limited (“SABCAP”) Guernsey 70% Insurance USD 187.5
SABIC Petrokemya Ticaret Limited (“SABIC TURKEY”) Turkey 70% Reseller TRY 0.2
SABIC Middle East Offshore Company
(“SABIC MIDDLE EAST”) Lebanon 70% Marketing and sales support USD 0.1
SABIC South Africa South Africa 70% Marketing and sales support ZAR 2.9
SABIC Africa for Trading & Marketing
(“SABIC AFRICA”) Egypt 70% Marketing and sales support EGP 0.1
SABIC Morocco Morocco 70% Marketing and sales support MAD 0.4
Personnel and other
SABIC Global Mobility Company (“GMC”) UAE 70% support services n/a n/a
SABIC Mobility Company (“GMC LLC”) UAE n/a3 Petrochemical n/a n/a
SABIC Tunisia Tunisia 70% Marketing and sales support TND 0.4
SABIC Kenya Kenya 70% Marketing and sales support KES 0.7
SABIC (Pvt.) Pakistan Pakistan 70% Marketing and sales support PKR 0.6
SABIC Terminal Services Company (“SABTANK”) Saudi Arabia 63% Support services SAR 30.0
Jubail Chemical Storage and Services Company
(“CHEMTANK”) Saudi Arabia 52.5% Support services SAR 582.8
Joint Operations1
Saudi-Kuwaiti Oil and gas
Al-Khafji Joint Operations Partitioned Zone 50% exploration and production SAR 15.0
Fadhili Plant Cogeneration Company Saudi Arabia 30% Power generation SAR 1.5
Pengerang Petrochemical Company Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 50% Petrochemical MYR 1,207.0
Pengerang Refining Company Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 50% Refining MYR 6,457.0
Power Cogeneration Plant Company, LLC Saudi Arabia 50% Power generation SAR 24.8
Saudi Aramco Mobil Refinery Company Ltd. Saudi Arabia 50% Refining SAR 1,800.0
Saudi Aramco Total Refining and Petrochemical
Company Saudi Arabia 62.5% Refining/Petrochemical USD 2,200.0
Yanbu Aramco Sinopec Refining Company Limited Saudi Arabia 62.5% Refining USD 1,560.3
Gulf Coast Growth Venture LLC ("GCGV") USA 35% Petrochemical USD 56.3
Utility Support Group B.V. ("USG") Netherlands 35% Petrochemical EUR 0.1
Saudi Methacrylates Company (“SAMAC”) Saudi Arabia 35% Petrochemical SAR 1,350.0
[Page 161]
159
Shares issued by subsidiaries continued
Share capital
Place of business /
country of Percentage Principal Amount
Name of entity incorporation ownership business activity Currency (millions)
Joint Ventures1
Arabian Rig Manufacturing ("ARM") Saudi Arabia 30% Rig manufacturing SAR 28.6
First Coast Energy LLP ("FCE") USA 50% Marketing USD 164.0
Juniper Ventures of Texas LLP ("JVTX") USA 60% Marketing USD 139.0
Novel Non-Metallics Solutions Manufacturing
("Novel") Saudi Arabia 50% Manufacturing SAR 0.1
Sadara Chemical Company ("Sadara") Saudi Arabia 65% Petrochemical USD 9,500.0
Saudi Arabian Industrial Investment Company
(“Dussur”) Saudi Arabia 42.5% Investment SAR 2,000.0
S-Oil TOTAL Lubricants Co. Limited South Korea 50% Lubricants production/sale KRW 35,000.0
Star Enterprises LLC (“Star-Ent”) USA 50% Pension administration USD 247.0
Tas'helat Marketing Company ("TMC") Saudi Arabia 50% Marketing SAR 40.0
Advanced Energy Storage System Company (“AESSC”) Saudi Arabia 30.1% Petrochemical SAR 0.5
Al-Jubail Petrochemical Company ("Kemya") Saudi Arabia 35% Petrochemical SAR 2,149.2
Eastern Petrochemical Company ("Sharq") Saudi Arabia 35% Petrochemical SAR 1,890.0
SABIC Plastic Energy Advanced Recycling BV
(“SABIC Plastic Energy”) Netherlands 35% Petrochemical SAR 2.3
SABIC SK Nexelene Company ("SSNC") Singapore 35% Petrochemical SAR 1,125.0
Cosmar Inc. ("COSMAR") USA 35% Petrochemical SAR 911.0
Saudi Yanbu Petrochemical Company ("Yanpet") Saudi Arabia 35% Petrochemical SAR 4,596.0
People's
Sinopec SABIC Tianjin Petrochemical Company Republic of
("SSTPC") China 35% Petrochemical SAR 5,342.9
Associates1
BP AOC Pumpstation Maatschap Netherlands 50% Storage EUR 0.0
BP ESSO AOC Maatschap Netherlands 34% Storage EUR 0.0
International Maritime Industries Company (“IMIC”) Saudi Arabia 50.1% Maritime SAR 1,591.0
Power & Water Utility Company for Jubail and Yanbu
(“Marafiq”) Saudi Arabia 42.2% Utilities SAR 2,500.0
Team Terminal B.V. Netherlands 34.4% Storage EUR 0.0
Rabigh Refining and Petrochemical Company
(“Petro Rabigh”) Saudi Arabia 37.5% Refining/Petrochemical SAR 8,760.0
1. Percentages disclosed reflect the effective ownership of Aramco in the respective entities.
2. In February 2021, SP. CHEM and SOCC merged into PETROKEMYA.
3. Under liquidation.
For more information on Aramco’s subsidiaries, see Section 8: Consolidated financial statements – Notes 38 and 39.
notiamrofni
lagel
dna
laicnanfi
lanotiiddA
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 162]
160
Forecasts and forward-looking statements
This Annual Report may contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to Aramco’s financial position, results of operations
and business and certain of Aramco’s plans, intentions, expectations, assumptions, goals and beliefs regarding such items. These
statements include all matters that are not historical fact and generally, but not always, may be identified by the use of words such as
“believes”, “expects”, “are expected to”, “anticipates”, “intends”, “estimates”, “should”, “will”, “shall”, “may”, “is likely to”, “plans”,
“outlook” or similar expressions, including variations and the negatives thereof or comparable terminology.
Prospective investors should be aware that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and that Aramco’s
actual financial position, results of operations and business and the development of the industries in which it operates may differ
significantly from those made in or suggested by these forward-looking statements. In addition, even if Aramco’s financial position,
results of operations and business and the development of the industries in which it operates are consistent with these forward-
looking statements, those results or developments may not be indicative of results or developments in subsequent periods.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from Aramco’s expectations are contained in cautionary statements in this
Annual Report and include, among other things, the following:
• supply, demand and price fluctuations with respect to oil and gas, and Aramco’s other products;
• global economic market conditions;
• natural disasters and public health pandemics or epidemics (such as COVID-19);
• competition in the industries in which Aramco operates;
• conditions affecting the transportation of products;
• operational risk and hazards common in the oil and gas, refining and petrochemicals industries;
• the cyclical nature of the oil and gas, refining and petrochemicals industries;
• weather conditions;
• political and social instability and unrest and actual or potential armed conflicts in the MENA region and other areas;
• managing Aramco’s growth;
• risks in connection with projects under development and recent and future acquisitions and joint ventures, including with respect
to SABIC;
• managing Aramco’s subsidiaries, joint operations, joint ventures, associates and entities in which it holds a minority interest;
• Aramco’s exposure to interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk;
• risks related to operating in a regulated industry and changes to oil, gas, environmental or other regulations that impact the
industries in which Aramco operates; and
• international trade litigation, disputes or agreements.
The discussion of risk factors under Section 5: Risk, contains a more complete discussion of the factors that could affect Aramco’s
future performance and the industries in which it operates. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking
events described in this Annual Report may not occur.
We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events
or otherwise. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or to persons acting on our behalf are
expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements referred to above and contained elsewhere in this Annual Report.
[Page 163]
161
Terms and abbreviations
Currencies Technical Terms Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
Any gaseous compound in the
SAR/Saudi Riyal Arabian extra light
atmosphere that is capable of absorbing
Saudi Arabian riyal, the lawful Crude oil with API gravity of 36°
infrared radiation. Generally, consists of
currency of the Kingdom to 40° and sulfur content between
water vapor, CO, methane, nitrous oxide, 0.5% and 1.3%. 2
$/USD/US$/Dollar hydro fluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons
U.S. Dollar Arabian heavy and sulfur hexafluoride. Aramco’s
Crude oil with API gravity less than 29° inventory includes CO, methane and 2
Units of measurement and sulfur content greater than 2.9%. nitrous oxide.
Barrel (bbl) Arabian light Gross chemicals production capacity
Barrels of crude oil, condensate Crude oil with API gravity of 32° to 36° The total combined chemicals production
or refined products and sulfur content between 1.3% capacity of Aramco and the joint ventures
and 2.2%. and other entities in which Aramco owns
boe
an equity interest.
Barrels of oil equivalent Arabian medium
Crude oil with API gravity of 29° to 32° Gross refining capacity
bpd
and sulfur content between 2.2% The total combined refining capacity of Barrels per day
and 2.9%. Aramco and the joint ventures and other
bscf entities in which Aramco owns an equity
Arabian super light Billion standard cubic feet interest.
Crude oil with API gravity more than 40°
bscfd and sulfur content less than 0.5%. Hydrocarbons
Billion standard cubic feet per day Crude oil and other hydrogen and carbon
Carbon intensity
compounds in liquid or gaseous state.
BTU A measure of greenhouse gas emissions in
British thermal unit carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) equivalent per barrel Lifting costs
of oil equivalent. Oil and gas operations (i) production
mboed
related expenses; (ii) taxes other than
Thousand barrels of oil CO
2 income taxes (if applicable); and (iii)
equivalent per day Carbon dioxide.
production related general and
mbpd CO 2 e administrative expenses. Lifting costs
Thousand barrels per day Carbon dioxide equivalent. exclude exploration, royalty, R&D and
depreciation costs.
mmbbl Condensate
Million barrels Light hydrocarbon substances produced Liquids
with raw gas which condenses into liquid Crude oil, condensate and NGL.
mmboe
at normal temperatures and pressures
Million barrels of oil equivalent LNG
associated with surface production
Liquefied natural gas.
mmboed equipment.
Million barrels of oil equivalent LPG
Delineation
per day Liquefied petroleum gas, which is a
A process by which new wells are
mixture of saturated and unsaturated
mmbpd drilled in order to determine the
hydrocarbons, with up to five carbon
Million barrels per day boundaries of a discovered oil or gas
atoms, used as household fuel.
field, both its areal extent and its
mmBTU
vertical hydrocarbon column. MSC
Million British thermal units
Maximum Sustainable Capacity – the
Energy intensity
mmscf average maximum number of barrels
An index for measuring the total energy
Million standard cubic feet per day of crude oil that can be produced
consumed to generate a unit of product,
for one year during any future planning
mmscfd represented in thousand BTUs per total
period, after taking into account all
Million standard cubic feet production in barrel of oil equivalent.
planned capital expenditures and
per day
Flaring intensity maintenance, repair and operating
per day Volume of gas flared per barrel of oil costs, and after being given three months
Volumes are converted into a daily basis equivalent produced (scf/boe). to make operational adjustments.
using a calendar year (Gregorian) The MSC excludes AGOC’s crude oil
Freshwater
production capacity.
scf Non-brackish water with total dissolved
Standard cubic feet solids (TDS) concentration up to 2,000 MTBE
mg/l. Methyl tertiary butyl ether.
tscf
Trillion standard cubic feet
notiamrofni
lagel
dna
laicnanfi
lanotiiddA
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 164]
162
Natural gas Reliability
Dry gas produced at Aramco's gas plants Total products volume shipped/delivered
and sold within the Kingdom. within 24 hours of the scheduled time,
divided by the total products volume
Net chemicals production capacity
committed. Any delays caused by factors
Aramco’s equity share of its gross
that are under the Company’s control
chemicals production capacity, calculated
(e.g. terminal, pipeline, stabilization, or
by multiplying the gross chemicals
production) negatively affect the score,
production capacity of each facility
whereas delays caused by conditions that
in which Aramco has an interest by
are beyond the Company’s control, such
Aramco’s percentage equity ownership
as adverse weather, are not considered.
in the entity that owns the facility.
A score of less than 100 percent indicates
Net refining capacity there were issues that negatively
Aramco’s equity share of its gross refining impacted reliability.
capacity, calculated by multiplying the
Reserves life
gross refining capacity of each refinery
Calculated on a barrel of oil equivalent
in which Aramco has an interest by
basis by dividing proved reserves as
Aramco’s percentage equity ownership
at a given year-end by production for
in the entity that owns the refinery.
that year.
NGL
Scope 1 GHG emissions
Natural gas liquids, which are liquid
Direct emissions, which include GHG
or liquefied hydrocarbons produced in
emissions from onsite fuel combustion,
the manufacture, purification and
flaring, venting and fugitive emissions.
stabilization of natural gas. For purposes
of reserves, ethane is included in NGL. Scope 2 GHG emissions
For purposes of production, ethane Indirect emissions, which account for GHG
is reported separately and excluded emissions from offsite power generation
from NGL. including electricity and steam.
Production costs Tier 1 Process Safety Event
The sum of operating costs and An unplanned or uncontrolled release
depreciation, reflecting both the erosion of any material, including non-toxic and
of asset value over time on an accounting nonflammable materials, from a process
basis and the cost of operating the that results in one or more of the
business. consequences listed in API Recommended
Practice-754.
Proved reserves
Those quantities of liquids and gas, which, Total recordable case (TRC) frequency
by analysis of geoscience and engineering Sum of recordable cases that occurred in
data, can be estimated with reasonable the workplace per 200,000 work hours.
certainty to be economically producible
Unconventional oil and gas
– from a given date forward, from known
Term refers to the oil and gas resources
reservoirs, and under existing economic
which cannot be explored, developed and
conditions, operating methods and
produced by conventional processes just
government regulations – prior to the
in using the natural pressure of the wells
time at which contracts providing the
and pumping or compression operations.
right to operate expire, unless evidence
indicates that renewal is reasonably Upstream methane intensity
certain, regardless of whether Estimated methane emissions from
deterministic or probabilistic methods are upstream operations per volume
used for the estimation. The project to of marketed natural gas expressed
extract the hydrocarbons must have as a percentage.
commenced or the operator must be
reasonably certain that it will commence
the project within a reasonable time.
[Page 165]
163
Glossary
Affiliate Board Control
Except with respect to financial The Board of Directors of the Company. Except with respect to financial
information, the term Affiliate means a information, the term Control means the
Bylaws
person who controls another person or is ability to influence the actions or decisions
The Bylaws of the Company, approved
controlled by that other person, or who is of another person through, whether
by Council of Ministers Resolution
under common control with that person directly or indirectly, alone or with a
No. 180 dated 1/4/1439H (corresponding
by a third person. In any of the preceding, relative or affiliate (a) holding 30% or
to December 19, 2017), which came into
control could be direct or indirect. more of the voting rights in a company, or effect on January 1, 2018.
(b) having the right to appoint 30% or
With respect to financial information, CCUS more of the Board of a company;
the term Affiliate is defined by IFRS, Carbon Capture, Utilization, and Storage. “controller” shall be construed
meaning the Company’s subsidiaries, accordingly.
CHP
joint arrangements and associates.
Combined Heat and Power. With respect to financial information,
AGM the term Control is defined by IFRS: the
CMA
Annual general assembly meeting. Company controls an entity when it is
The Capital Market Authority, including,
exposed to, or has rights to, variable
AGOC where the context permits, any returns from its involvement with the
Aramco Gulf Operations Company Ltd. committee, sub-committee, employee or
entity and has the ability to affect those
agent to whom any function of the CMA
API returns through its power over the entity.
may be delegated.
The American Petroleum Institute, which
Corporate Governance Regulations (CGRs)
is the major United States trade Companies Law
The Corporate Governance Regulations
association for the oil and gas industry. The Companies Law, issued under
issued pursuant to the CMA Board
Royal Decree No. M/3, dated 28/1/1437H
ARLANXEO Resolution No. 8-16-2017, dated
(corresponding to November 10, 2015),
ARLANXEO Holding B.V., a wholly owned 16/5/1438H (corresponding to February
as amended.
specialty chemicals subsidiary. 13, 2017), as amended.
Company
Associate Council of Ministers
Saudi Arabian Oil Company.
With respect to financial information, the The cabinet of the Kingdom, which is led
term Associate, as defined by IFRS, means Concession by the Custodian of the Two Holy
an entity over which the Company has As defined in Section 7: Additional Mosques, the King, and includes HRH the
significant influence but does not control, financial and legal information – Crown Prince and other cabinet ministers.
generally reflected by a shareholding of Material agreements – The Concession.
COVID-19
between 20% and 50% of the voting
Concession Amendment The coronavirus disease 2019.
rights. Significant influence is the power
As defined in Section 7: Additional
to participate in the financial and D&M
financial and legal information –
operating policy decisions of the investee DeGolyer & MacNaughton, Aramco’s
Material agreements – The Concession.
but is not control or joint control over independent petroleum consultant.
those policies. Concession Area
Domestic
The territorial lands and maritime
ATC Refers to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
areas of the Kingdom except in the
Aramco Trading Company, a wholly
Excluded Areas. Domestic price
owned subsidiary of Aramco.
Certain prices for the domestic sale
Concession Effective Date
Auditor of gas hydrocarbons including those
As defined in Section 7: Additional
PricewaterhouseCoopers Public for Regulated Gas Products.
financial and legal information –
Accountants, the independent external
Material agreements – The Concession. Dow
auditor of Aramco.
Dow Inc.
Blended Price
EBIT
Pursuant to Council of Ministers
Earnings (losses) before interest, income
Resolution No. 370, dated 10/7/1439H
taxes and zakat.
(corresponding to March 27, 2018) and
the Ministerial Resolution issued by the ERM
Ministry of Energy, in agreement with Enterprise Risk Management.
the Ministry of Finance, No. 01-5928-1439,
ESG
dated as at 27/8/1439H (corresponding
Environmental, social and governance.
to May 13, 2018), effective March 17,
2018, the Kingdom established the
price due to licensees for the domestic
sale of Regulated Gas Products.
notiamrofni
lagel
dna
laicnanfi
lanotiiddA
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 166]
164
Excluded Areas Hydrocarbons Law Kingdom
The limited area excluded from Aramco’s Law governing hydrocarbons, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
rights under the Concession, consisting hydrocarbon resources, and hydrocarbon
KPIs
of: (a) the boundaries of the Holy operations existing within the territory of
Key Performance Indicators.
Mosques in Makkah Al-Mukarramah the Kingdom, enacted by Royal Decree
and Madinah Al-Munawwarah, (b) the No. M/37, dated 2/4/1439H (corresponding LTI
partitioned territory and its adjoining to December 20, 2017), as amended. Lost time injuries.
offshore areas in accordance with the
IAS Luberef
agreements between the Kingdom and
International Accounting Standard(s). Saudi Aramco Base Oil Company, a joint
the State of Kuwait and (c) the common
venture between Aramco and Jadwa
zone in the Red Sea in accordance with IASB
Industrial Investment Company, which
the agreement between the Kingdom and International Accounting Standards Board.
acquired its share from Mobil in 2007.
the Republic of Sudan.
IFRS
MEIM
FSIA International Financial Reporting
The Ministry of Energy, Industry and
U.S. Foreign Sovereign Immunity Act. Standard(s) that are endorsed in the
Mineral Resources of the Kingdom.
Kingdom and other standards and
G20 Predecessor to the Ministry of Energy.
pronouncements endorsed by SOCPA.
Group of 20.
MENA
iktva
GAZT Middle East and North Africa.
In-Kingdom total value add.
The Saudi Arabian General Authority of
MGS
Zakat and Tax. Income Tax Law/Tax Law
Master Gas System, an extensive network
Income Tax Law issued under Royal
GCC of pipelines that connects Aramco’s
Decree No. M/1 dated 15/1/1425H
The Cooperation Council for the Arab key gas production and processing sites
(corresponding to March 6, 2004) and its
States of the Gulf, consisting of the throughout the Kingdom.
Implementing Regulations issued under
member states of the Kingdom of Bahrain,
Ministerial Resolution No. 1535 dated Ministry of Energy
State of Kuwait, Sultanate of Oman, State
11/6/1425H (corresponding to August 11, Ministry of Energy of the Kingdom.
of Qatar, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and
2004), as amended from time to time. Successor to MEIM.
United Arab Emirates.
IOCs Ministry of Human Resources
GDP
International oil companies. and Social Development
Gross Domestic Product. The broadest
Ministry of Human Resources and
quantitative measure of a nation’s total IPIECA
Social Development of the Kingdom,
economic activity, representing the International Petroleum Industry
formerly the Ministry of Labor and
monetary value of all goods and services Environmental Conservation Association.
Social Development.
produced within a nation’s geographic
IPO
borders over a specified period of time. Ministry of Industry and
The initial public offering.
Mineral Resources
General Assembly
ISO The Ministry of Industry and Mineral
Any Ordinary General Assembly or
International Organization for Resources of the Kingdom.
Extraordinary General Assembly.
Standardization.
Motiva
GMTN program
Joint arrangement Motiva Enterprises LLC.
On April 1, 2019, the Company
The term joint arrangement, as defined by
established a global medium term NOCs
IFRS, refers to either a joint operation or a
note program pursuant to which it National oil companies.
joint venture.
may from time to time issue notes.
OGCI
Joint operation
Government Oil and Gas Climate Initiative.
The term joint operation, as defined by
The Government of the Kingdom (and
IFRS, arises where the investors have OPEC
“Governmental” shall be interpreted
rights to the assets and obligations for the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting
accordingly).
liabilities of a joint arrangement. Countries.
GSPR
Joint venture Original Concession
The Law of Gas Supplies and Pricing
The term joint venture, as defined by IFRS, As defined in Section 7: Additional
enacted by Royal Decree No. M/36, dated
means a type of joint arrangement financial and legal information –
25/6/1424H (corresponding to August 23,
whereby the parties that have joint Material agreements – The Concession.
2003), as amended.
control of the arrangement have rights to
Paris Agreement
H the net assets of the joint arrangement.
The United Nations Framework
Hijri calendar.
KAUST Convention on Climate Change
HSE King Abdullah University of Science Paris Agreement.
Health, Safety and Environment. and Technology.
Petronas
HSSE KFUPM Petroliam Nasional Bhd.
Health, Safety, Security, and Environment. King Fahd University of Petroleum and
Minerals.
[Page 167]
165
Petro Rabigh SABIC S-Oil
Rabigh Refining and Petrochemical Saudi Basic Industries Corporation. S-Oil Corporation.
Company, a venture established by
Sadara SPE-PRMS
Aramco and Sumitomo Chemical Co. Ltd.
Sadara Chemical Company, a joint venture Society of Petroleum Engineers –
in 2005, which is a publicly traded
established by Aramco and Dow Saudi Petroleum Resources Management
company listed on Tadawul.
Arabia B.V. in 2011. System.
PIF
SASREF SSC Public Investment Fund of Saudi Arabia.
Saudi Aramco Jubail Refinery Company, Sustainability Steering Committee.
PRefChem a subsidiary of Aramco, formerly known
Stellar
PRefChem Petrochemical and PRefChem as Saudi Aramco Shell Refinery Company. Stellar Insurance Ltd.
Refining.
SATORP
Subsidiaries
PRefChem Petrochemical Saudi Aramco Total Refining and
Except with respect to financial
Pengerang Petrochemical Company Petrochemical Company, a joint venture
information, the term subsidiaries means
Sdn. Bhd. established by Aramco and Total Refining
the companies that Aramco controls
Saudi Arabia SAS in 2008.
PRefChem Refining through its ability to influence the actions
Pengerang Refining Company Sdn. Bhd. Saudi Aramco / Aramco or decisions of another person through,
Saudi Arabian Oil Company, together with whether directly or indirectly, alone or
Price equalization
its consolidated subsidiaries, and where with a relative or affiliate (i) holding 30%
Prices are established separately by the
the context requires, its joint operations, or more of the voting rights in a company
Ministry of Energy for each relevant
joint ventures and associates. or (ii) having the right to appoint 30%
product using a combination of either
or more of the Board of a company.
internationally recognized indices or, Any reference to “us”, “we” or “our”
where relevant, the Company's official refers to Aramco except where otherwise With respect to financial information,
selling price and, depending on the stated. the term subsidiaries is defined by
relevant product, on the basis of export IFRS, meaning entities over which the
Unless otherwise stated, the text does not
parity, import parity or a combination Company has control.
distinguish between the activities and
of both.
operations of the Company and those of Sukuk
R&D its subsidiaries. Senior unsecured sukuk (Shari'a-
Research and development. compliant certificates).
Senior Executives /
Regulated Gas Products Management Committee Sumed Company
Gas hydrocarbons which are subject to the The members of the senior management The Arab Petroleum Pipeline Company.
Kingdom’s gas pricing regime, including of Aramco holding the title of President
Sumitomo
natural gas, ethane and NGL (propane, (CEO) or Senior Vice President.
Sumitomo Chemical Co. Ltd.
butane and natural gasoline).
Senior Management
Tadawul
Relatives The Senior Management and other
The Saudi Stock Exchange, the sole entity
The term relatives is defined as: officers of Aramco who, while
authorized in the Kingdom to act as a
subordinate to the Senior Executives, are
i. F athers, mothers, grandfathers and securities exchange.
still involved in the management of
grandmothers (and their ancestors).
Aramco and participate in driving its Total
ii. C hildren and grandchildren and their strategies, decisions or operations. Total S.A.
descendants.
Senior Unsecured Notes U.S. / United States / USA
iii. S iblings, maternal and paternal Senior unsecured notes under the GMTN United States of America.
half-siblings and their children. Program.
YASREF
iv. Husbands and wives. Shareholder Yanbu Aramco Sinopec Refinery Company
Any holder of shares. Limited, a joint venture established
Reserved areas
by Aramco and Sinopec Century Bright
The areas reserved for Aramco’s Shari'a
Capital Investment (Amsterdam) B.V.
operations within the Concession Area. Islamic religious law.
in 2010.
ROACE Shell
Return on average capital employed. Royal Dutch Shell plc.
Rules on the Offer of Securities and Sinopec
Continuing Obligations (OSCO Rules) China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation.
As issued by the board of the CMA
SOCPA
pursuant to CMA Board Resolution
Saudi Organization for Certified Public
No. 3-123-2017 dated 9/4/1439H
Accountants.
(corresponding to December 27, 2017)
based on the Capital Market Law, as
amended by CMA Board Resolution
No. 1-104-2019 dated 1/2/1441H
(corresponding to September 30, 2019).
notiamrofni
lagel
dna
laicnanfi
lanotiiddA
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 170]
168
Independent auditor’s report to the shareholders of Saudi Arabian
Oil Company
Report on the audit of the consolidated financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the
consolidated financial position of Saudi Arabian Oil Company (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries
(together the “Group”) as at December 31, 2020, and its consolidated financial performance and its
consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards, that are endorsed in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and other standards and pronouncements
issued by the Saudi Organization for Certified Public Accountants (SOCPA).
What we have audited
The Group’s consolidated financial statements comprise:
• the consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2020;
• the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2020;
• the consolidated balance sheet as at December 31, 2020;
• the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended December 31, 2020;
• the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2020; and
• the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which include significant accounting policies and
other explanatory information.
Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing, that are endorsed in the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s
responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
opinion.
Independence
We are independent of the Group in accordance with the code of professional conduct and ethics, endorsed
in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial statements and
we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers, License No. 25, Saudi Aramco, P.O. Box 1659, Dhahran 31311, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
T: +966 (13) 873-6800, F: +966 (13) 873-8883, www.pwc.com/middle-east
[Page 171]
169
Independent auditor’s report to the shareholders of Saudi Arabian
Oil Company (continued)
Our audit approach
Overview
• We determined overall Group materiality taking into account the profit-
oriented nature of the Group.
• Based on income before income taxes and zakat of SAR 372.4 billion, we
Materiality determined our overall Group materiality at SAR 14.2 billion.
• Our quantitative threshold for reporting misstatements to those charged
with governance was set at SAR 1.1 billion.
Based on their size, complexity and risk:
• We considered the Company’s standalone operations and four other
components located in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the United States of
Group
America and the Republic of Korea as significant to the Group audit; and
scoping
• We also determined a number of other components to be in scope for the
Group audit, in respect of which appropriate audit procedures were
performed.
Key audit Our key audit matters comprise the following:
matters • Accounting for the acquisition of Saudi Basic Industries Corporation
(“SABIC”); and
• Assessment of recoverability of the goodwill and brand recognised as part
of the SABIC acquisition.
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement
in the consolidated financial statements. In particular, we considered where the Board of Directors made
subjective judgments; for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making
assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also
addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including among other matters,
consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due
to fraud.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. An audit is designed to obtain
reasonable assurance whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement.
Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if, individually or in aggregate,
they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the
consolidated financial statements.
Based on our professional judgment, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality,
including the overall Group materiality for the consolidated financial statements as a whole as set out in the
table below. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit
and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both
individually and in aggregate, on the consolidated financial statements as a whole.
2
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 172]
170
Independent auditor’s report to the shareholders of Saudi Arabian
Oil Company (continued)
Overall Group
SAR 14.2 billion (2019: SAR 26.3 billion)
materiality
How we
Approximately 4% of income before income taxes and zakat
determined it
Rationale for
the materiality Income before income taxes and zakat is an important benchmark for the Group’s
benchmark stakeholders and is a generally accepted benchmark for profit-oriented groups.
applied
We agreed with those charged with governance that we would report to them misstatements identified
during our audit above SAR 1.1 billion.
How we tailored our Group audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on
the consolidated financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group, the
accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group’s operations are conducted through many components in several parts of the world. The most
significant component within the Group is the Company itself and most of the audit effort was spent by the
Group engagement team based in Dhahran, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The Group engagement team tested
IT general controls, application and manual controls over systems and processes related to the Company’s
financial information supplemented by tests of detail and analytical procedures. Certain audit procedures
were carried out by the Group engagement team with assistance from internal accounting, valuation,
pension, tax and IT experts and specialists. The Group engagement team also coordinated the work done
by the various component teams across different locations and performed audit procedures on the
consolidation workings and disclosures.
We identified four additional significant components where a full scope audit on the respective components’
financial information was performed under our instructions. Members of the Group engagement team
performed the full scope audit of the significant component located in Dhahran, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Component teams in Riyadh, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the United States of America and the Republic of
Korea performed full scope audits of the components at those locations. We also requested certain other
component teams to perform appropriate audit procedures. The selection of these components was based
on qualitative and quantitative considerations, including whether the component accounted for a
significant proportion of individual consolidated financial statement line items.
The Group engagement team’s involvement in the audit work performed by component teams considered
the relative significance and complexity of the individual component. This included allocating overall Group
materiality to the different components, sending formal instructions, obtaining regular updates on progress
and results of procedures as well as review of deliverables and the relevant underlying working papers.
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our
audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the
context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon,
and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
3
[Page 173]
171
Independent auditor’s report to the shareholders of Saudi Arabian
Oil Company (continued)
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit
matter
Accounting for the acquisition of SABIC
The Company acquired a 70% equity interest in Our procedures included the following:
SABIC in June 2020.
• We read the share purchase agreement and
The total purchase consideration was SAR 259.1 tested the appropriateness of the fair value of the
billion for acquisition of identifiable net assets with purchase consideration.
preliminary fair values of SAR 260.7 billion. Non-
controlling interests of SAR 100.7 billion and • We assessed the competency, objectivity and
goodwill of SAR 99.1 billion were recognised as independence of the independent valuer
part of the transaction. engaged by the Group.
The acquisition was accounted for in accordance • With input from internal valuation experts
with IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’, that is
(where considered necessary), we performed the
endorsed in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and
following procedures, in relation to the
required management to make significant
preliminary fair values of the identifiable net
estimates as part of determining the preliminary
assets that formed part of the purchase price
fair values of the identifiable assets acquired and
allocation, as deemed appropriate:
liabilities assumed.
- Considered the appropriateness of the
The Group engaged an independent valuer in order
methodology and assumptions used in
to determine the fair value of the purchase
determining the preliminary fair values
consideration and the preliminary fair values that
based on the applicable financial reporting
formed part of the purchase price allocation.
requirements and established market
practice;
We considered this to be a key audit matter given
- Compared certain key unobservable inputs
the significant estimates involved in determining
underlying the preliminary fair values to
the preliminary fair values of the identifiable assets
supporting documentation such as approved
acquired and liabilities assumed.
financial plans; and
- Evaluated the reasonableness of certain
Refer to Note 2(e) and Note 4 to the consolidated
observable inputs and/or the resulting
financial statements for further information.
preliminary fair values based on comparable
market data.
• We considered the appropriateness of the
related accounting policies and disclosures in
the consolidated financial statements.
4
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
Key audit matter | How our audit addressed the key audit
matter
Accounting for the acquisition of SABIC
The Company acquired a 70% equity interest in
SABIC in June 2020.
The total purchase consideration was SAR 259.1
billion for acquisition of identifiable net assets with
preliminary fair values of SAR 260.7 billion. Non-
controlling interests of SAR 100.7 billion and
goodwill of SAR 99.1 billion were recognised as
part of the transaction.
The acquisition was accounted for in accordance
with IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’, that is
endorsed in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and
required management to make significant
estimates as part of determining the preliminary
fair values of the identifiable assets acquired and
liabilities assumed.
The Group engaged an independent valuer in order
to determine the fair value of the purchase
consideration and the preliminary fair values that
formed part of the purchase price allocation.
We considered this to be a key audit matter given
the significant estimates involved in determining
the preliminary fair values of the identifiable assets
acquired and liabilities assumed.
Refer to Note 2(e) and Note 4 to the consolidated
financial statements for further information. | Our procedures included the following:
• We read the share purchase agreement and
tested the appropriateness of the fair value of the
purchase consideration.
• We assessed the competency, objectivity and
independence of the independent valuer
engaged by the Group.
• With input from internal valuation experts
(where considered necessary), we performed the
following procedures, in relation to the
preliminary fair values of the identifiable net
assets that formed part of the purchase price
allocation, as deemed appropriate:
- Considered the appropriateness of the
methodology and assumptions used in
determining the preliminary fair values
based on the applicable financial reporting
requirements and established market
practice;
- Compared certain key unobservable inputs
underlying the preliminary fair values to
supporting documentation such as approved
financial plans; and
- Evaluated the reasonableness of certain
observable inputs and/or the resulting
preliminary fair values based on comparable
market data.
• We considered the appropriateness of the
related accounting policies and disclosures in
the consolidated financial statements.
Accounting for the acquisition of SABIC
The Company acquired a 70% equity interest in
SABIC in June 2020.
The total purchase consideration was SAR 259.1
billion for acquisition of identifiable net assets with
preliminary fair values of SAR 260.7 billion. Non-
controlling interests of SAR 100.7 billion and
goodwill of SAR 99.1 billion were recognised as
part of the transaction.
The acquisition was accounted for in accordance
with IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’, that is
endorsed in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and
required management to make significant
estimates as part of determining the preliminary
fair values of the identifiable assets acquired and
liabilities assumed.
The Group engaged an independent valuer in order
to determine the fair value of the purchase
consideration and the preliminary fair values that
formed part of the purchase price allocation.
We considered this to be a key audit matter given
the significant estimates involved in determining
the preliminary fair values of the identifiable assets
acquired and liabilities assumed.
Refer to Note 2(e) and Note 4 to the consolidated
financial statements for further information.
Our procedures included the following:
• We read the share purchase agreement and
tested the appropriateness of the fair value of the
purchase consideration.
• We assessed the competency, objectivity and
independence of the independent valuer
engaged by the Group.
• With input from internal valuation experts
(where considered necessary), we performed the
following procedures, in relation to the
preliminary fair values of the identifiable net
assets that formed part of the purchase price
allocation, as deemed appropriate:
- Considered the appropriateness of the
methodology and assumptions used in
determining the preliminary fair values
based on the applicable financial reporting
requirements and established market
practice;
- Compared certain key unobservable inputs
underlying the preliminary fair values to
supporting documentation such as approved
financial plans; and
- Evaluated the reasonableness of certain
observable inputs and/or the resulting
preliminary fair values based on comparable
market data.
• We considered the appropriateness of the
related accounting policies and disclosures in
the consolidated financial statements.
[Page 174]
172
Independent auditor’s report to the shareholders of Saudi Arabian
Oil Company (continued)
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit
matter
Assessment of recoverability of the
goodwill and brand recognised as part of
the SABIC acquisition
IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’, that is endorsed in Our procedures included the following:
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, requires goodwill
and indefinite-lived intangible assets to be tested • We reviewed the appropriateness of
annually, irrespective of whether there is any management’s provisional allocation of
indication of impairment. goodwill to the Downstream operating segment
and brand to the aggregation of the relevant
Management performed an assessment of cash-generating units, based on the
recoverability of the goodwill and brand requirements of IAS 36 ‘Impairment of assets’,
recognised as part of the SABIC acquisition. The that is endorsed in the Kingdom of Saudi
carrying amounts of these assets were SAR 99.1 Arabia.
billion and SAR 18.2 billion, respectively, at • We assessed the appropriateness of the assets
December 31, 2020. and liabilities considered as part of the
impairment tests for the goodwill and brand.
Goodwill has been provisionally allocated to the • With input from internal valuation experts
Downstream operating segment. Therefore, the
(where considered necessary), we performed
goodwill impairment test was performed at the
the following procedures on management’s
Downstream operating segment level. The brand
valuation models, as deemed appropriate:
test was performed based on an aggregation of the
- Considered the consistency of certain
relevant cash-generating units.
unobservable inputs underlying the 1o-year
cash flows such as expected product volumes
The recoverable amounts were determined based
and future operating and development costs
on value-in-use calculations derived using
with approved financial plans;
discounted cash flow models. The models were
- Compared a sample of forecast commodity
based on the most recent financial plans and
prices underlying the 10-year cash flows to
included 10-year projection periods with terminal
market data points;
values assumed thereafter.
- Evaluated the reasonableness of approved
financial plans by comparison to historical
The exercise performed supported the goodwill
results;
and brand carrying values and did not identify the
- Assessed the reasonableness of the approach
need for any impairment charges to be recognised.
and inputs used to determine the terminal
values;
We considered this to be a key audit matter given
- Evaluated the reasonableness of the pre-tax
the significant estimates involved in determining
discount rates used by cross-checking the
recoverable amounts and the uncertainty inherent
underlying assumptions against observable
in the underlying forecasts and assumptions. The
market data;
key inputs to the recoverable amounts included
- Tested the mathematical accuracy and
the:
logical integrity of the models; and
• Cash flows during the 10-year periods including - Tested management’s sensitivity analyses
the underlying assumptions; that considered the impact of changes in
• Terminal values; and assumptions on the outcome of the
• Pre-tax discount rates. impairment assessments.
• We considered the appropriateness of the
Refer to Note 2(f) and Note 7 to the consolidated related accounting policies and disclosures in
financial statements for further information. the consolidated financial statements.
5
[TABLE DATA]
Key audit matter |  | How our audit addressed the key audit |
|  | matter |
[Page 175]
173
Independent auditor’s report to the shareholders of Saudi Arabian
Oil Company (continued)
Other information
The Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
Annual Report (but does not include the consolidated financial statements and our auditor’s report
thereon).
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other
information identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise
appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other
information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and those charged with governance for the
consolidated financial statements
The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, that are endorsed in the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and other standards and pronouncements issued by SOCPA, and the applicable
requirements of the Regulations for Companies and the Company’s Bylaws, and for such internal control
as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the
Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern
and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate
the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as
a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report
that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an
audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing, that are endorsed in the Kingdom
of Saudi Arabia, will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from
fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial
statements.
6
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 176]
174
Independent auditor’s report to the shareholders of Saudi Arabian
Oil Company (continued)
As part of an audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing, that are endorsed in the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism
throughout the audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether
due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit
evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting
a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal
control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures
that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Group’s internal control.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting
estimates and related disclosures made by the Board of Directors.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting
and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we
conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to
the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate,
to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our
auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a
going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements,
including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying
transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or
business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We
are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Group audit. We remain solely
responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope
and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal
control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant
ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related
safeguards.
7
[Page 177]
175
Independent auditor’s report to the shareholders of Saudi Arabian
Oil Company (continued)
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that
were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are
therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation
precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that
a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Bader I. Benmohareb
License No. 471
March 18, 2021
8
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 178]
176 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
Consolidated statement of income
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
Note 2020 2019 2020 2019
Revenue 25 768,109 1,105,696 204,829 294,852
Other income related to sales 93,982 131,089 25,062 34,957
Revenue and other income related to sales 862,091 1,236,785 229,891 329,809
Royalties and other taxes (89,964) (182,141) (23,991) (48,571)
Purchases 26 (181,116) (225,170) (48,297) (60,045)
Producing and manufacturing (74,350) (58,249) (19,827) (15,533)
Selling, administrative and general (46,970) (36,647) (12,525) (9,773)
Exploration (7,293) (7,291) (1,945) (1,944)
Research and development (2,830) (2,150) (755) (573)
Depreciation and amortization 6,7 (76,208) (50,266) (20,322) (13,404)
Operating costs (478,731) (561,914) (127,662) (149,843)
Operating income 383,360 674,871 102,229 179,966
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 8 (3,554) (9,455) (948) (2,521)
Finance and other income 28 3,182 7,351 849 1,960
Finance costs 21 (10,564) (6,026) (2,817) (1,607)
Income before income taxes and zakat 372,424 666,741 99,313 177,798
Income taxes and zakat 9 (188,661) (336,048) (50,310) (89,613)
Net income 183,763 330,693 49,003 88,185
Net income (loss) attributable to
Shareholders' equity 184,926 330,816 49,313 88,218
Non-controlling interests (1,163) (123) (310) (33)
183,763 330,693 49,003 88,185
Earnings per share (basic and diluted) 37 0.93 1.65 0.25 0.44
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan Amin H. Nasser Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh
Chairman of the Board President & Chief Executive Officer Senior Vice President,
Finance, Strategy & Development
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
768,109 | 1,105,696
131,089 |  | 204,829
93,982 |  |  | 25,062
862,091 | 1,236,785 |  | 229,891
(89,964) | (182,141)
(225,170)
(58,249)
(36,647)
(7,291)
(2,150)
(50,266) |  | (23,991)
(181,116) |  |  | (48,297)
(74,350) |  |  | (19,827)
(46,970) |  |  | (12,525)
(7,293) |  |  | (1,945)
(2,830) |  |  | (755)
(76,208) |  |  | (20,322)
(478,731) | (561,914) |  | (127,662)
383,360 | 674,871
(9,455)
7,351
(6,026) |  | 102,229
(3,554) |  |  | (948)
3,182 |  |  | 849
(10,564) |  |  | (2,817)
372,424 | 666,741
(336,048) |  | 99,313
(188,661) |  |  | (50,310)
183,763 | 330,693 |  | 49,003
| 330,816
(123) |  |
|  |  |
184,926 |  |  | 49,313
(1,163) |  |  | (310)
183,763 | 330,693 |  | 49,003
| 1.65 |  |
0.93 |  |  | 0.25
[Page 179]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 177
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
Note 2020 2019 2020 2019
Net income 183,763 330,693 49,003 88,185
Other comprehensive (loss) income, net of tax 19
Items that will not be reclassified to net income
Remeasurement of post-employment benefit obligations (8,966) 2,628 (2,391) 701
Change in post-employment benefit deferred tax asset due to
new income tax rate – (464) – (123)
Share of post-employment benefit obligations remeasurement
from joint ventures and associates – 2 – –
Changes in fair value of equity investments classified as fair value
through other comprehensive income 1,795 187 479 50
Change in equity investment deferred tax liability due to new
income tax rate – 180 – 48
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to net income
Cash flow hedges and other (300) (322) (80) (86)
Changes in fair value of debt securities classified as fair value
through other comprehensive income 297 59 79 16
Share of other comprehensive income (loss) of joint ventures
and associates 550 (487) 147 (130)
Currency translation differences 2,768 (1,027) 738 (274)
(3,856) 756 (1,028) 202
Total comprehensive income 179,907 331,449 47,975 88,387
Total comprehensive income (loss) attributable to
Shareholders' equity 180,960 331,896 48,256 88,506
Non-controlling interests (1,053) (447) (281) (119)
179,907 331,449 47,975 88,387
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan Amin H. Nasser Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh
Chairman of the Board President & Chief Executive Officer Senior Vice President,
Finance, Strategy & Development
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
183,763 | 330,693
2,628
(464)
2
187
180
(322)
59
(487)
(1,027) |  | 49,003
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
(8,966) |  |  | (2,391)
– |  |  | –
– |  |  | –
1,795 |  |  | 479
– |  |  | –
|  |  |
(300) |  |  | (80)
297 |  |  | 79
550 |  |  | 147
2,768 |  |  | 738
(3,856) | 756 |  | (1,028)
179,907 | 331,449 |  | 47,975
| 331,896
(447) |  |
|  |  |
180,960 |  |  | 48,256
(1,053) |  |  | (281)
179,907 | 331,449 |  | 47,975
[Page 180]
178 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
Consolidated balance sheet
SAR USD*
At December 31 At December 31
Note 2020 2019 2020 2019
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 6 1,209,460 982,014 322,523 261,870
Intangible assets 7 164,547 30,122 43,879 8,033
Investments in joint ventures and associates 8 65,976 19,738 17,594 5,263
Deferred income tax assets 9 15,280 12,728 4,075 3,394
Other assets and receivables 10 37,258 21,372 9,935 5,699
Investments in securities 11 22,861 19,956 6,096 5,322
1,515,382 1,085,930 404,102 289,581
Current assets
Inventories 12 51,999 42,607 13,867 11,362
Trade receivables 13 85,183 93,526 22,715 24,940
Due from the Government 14 28,895 36,781 7,705 9,808
Other assets and receivables 10 18,769 12,109 5,005 3,230
Short-term investments 15 6,801 45,467 1,814 12,125
Cash and cash equivalents 16 207,232 177,706 55,262 47,388
398,879 408,196 106,368 108,853
Total assets 1,914,261 1,494,126 510,470 398,434
Equity and liabilities
Shareholders' equity
Share capital 60,000 60,000 16,000 16,000
Additional paid-in capital 26,981 26,981 7,195 7,195
Treasury shares 17 (3,264) (3,750) (870) (1,000)
Retained earnings:
Unappropriated 895,273 943,758 238,739 251,669
Appropriated 6,000 6,000 1,600 1,600
Other reserves 19 5,858 2,076 1,562 553
990,848 1,035,065 264,226 276,017
Non-controlling interests 20 110,246 11,170 29,399 2,979
1,101,094 1,046,235 293,625 278,996
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 21 436,920 150,690 116,512 40,184
Deferred income tax liabilities 9 53,621 44,471 14,299 11,859
Post-employment benefit obligations 22 54,207 21,174 14,455 5,646
Provisions and other liabilities 23 25,208 15,985 6,722 4,263
569,956 232,320 151,988 61,952
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 24 93,740 78,231 24,998 20,862
Obligations to the Government:
Income taxes and zakat 9 42,059 62,243 11,216 16,598
Dividend payable 36 – 35,475 – 9,460
Royalties 8,255 14,727 2,201 3,927
Borrowings 21 99,157 24,895 26,442 6,639
243,211 215,571 64,857 57,486
813,167 447,891 216,845 119,438
Total equity and liabilities 1,914,261 1,494,126 510,470 398,434
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan Amin H. Nasser Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh
Chairman of the Board President & Chief Executive Officer Senior Vice President,
Finance, Strategy & Development
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
| 982,014
30,122
19,738
12,728
21,372
19,956 |  |
|  |  |
1,209,460 |  |  | 322,523
164,547 |  |  | 43,879
65,976 |  |  | 17,594
15,280 |  |  | 4,075
37,258 |  |  | 9,935
22,861 |  |  | 6,096
1,515,382 | 1,085,930 |  | 404,102
| 42,607
93,526
36,781
12,109
45,467
177,706 |  |
51,999 |  |  | 13,867
85,183 |  |  | 22,715
28,895 |  |  | 7,705
18,769 |  |  | 5,005
6,801 |  |  | 1,814
207,232 |  |  | 55,262
398,879 | 408,196 |  | 106,368
1,914,261 | 1,494,126 |  | 510,470
| 60,000
26,981
(3,750)
943,758
6,000
2,076 |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
60,000 |  |  | 16,000
26,981 |  |  | 7,195
(3,264) |  |  | (870)
|  |  |
895,273 |  |  | 238,739
6,000 |  |  | 1,600
5,858 |  |  | 1,562
990,848 | 1,035,065
11,170 |  | 264,226
110,246 |  |  | 29,399
1,101,094 | 1,046,235 |  | 293,625
| 150,690
44,471
21,174
15,985 |  |
436,920 |  |  | 116,512
53,621 |  |  | 14,299
54,207 |  |  | 14,455
25,208 |  |  | 6,722
569,956 | 232,320 |  | 151,988
| 78,231
62,243
35,475
14,727
24,895 |  |
93,740 |  |  | 24,998
|  |  |
42,059 |  |  | 11,216
– |  |  | –
8,255 |  |  | 2,201
99,157 |  |  | 26,442
243,211 | 215,571 |  | 64,857
813,167 | 447,891 |  | 216,845
1,914,261 | 1,494,126 |  | 510,470
[Page 181]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 179
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
SAR USD*
Shareholders’ equity
Retained earnings
Additional Other Non-
Share paid-in Treasury reserves controlling
capital capital shares Unappropriated Appropriated1 (Note 19) interests Total Total
Balance at
January 1, 2019 60,000 26,981 – 920,625 6,000 3,176 11,653 1,028,435 274,249
Net income (loss) – – – 330,816 – – (123) 330,693 88,185
Other comprehensive
income (loss) – – – – – 1,080 (324) 756 202
Total comprehensive
income (loss) – – – 330,816 – 1,080 (447) 331,449 88,387
Acquisition of treasury
shares (Note 17) – – (3,750) – – – – (3,750) (1,000)
Transfer of post-
employment benefit
obligations
remeasurement – – – 2,178 – (2,178) – – –
Transfer of share of
post-employment
benefit obligation
remeasurement
from joint ventures
and associates – – – 2 – (2) – – –
Dividends (Note 36) – – – (309,863) – – – (309,863) (82,630)
Dividends to
non-controlling interests – – – – – – (36) (36) (10)
Balance at
December 31, 2019 60,000 26,981 (3,750) 943,758 6,000 2,076 11,170 1,046,235 278,996
Net income (loss) – – – 184,926 – – (1,163) 183,763 49,003
Other comprehensive
(loss) income – – – – – (3,966) 110 (3,856) (1,028)
Total comprehensive
income (loss) – – – 184,926 – (3,966) (1,053) 179,907 47,975
Acquisition of
subsidiary (Note 4) – – – – – – 100,739 100,739 26,864
Transfer of post-
employment benefit
obligations
remeasurement – – – (7,722) – 7,722 – – –
Treasury shares issued to
employees (Note 17) – – 486 44 – (530) – – –
Share-based
compensation – – – (24) – 556 – 532 142
Dividends (Note 36) – – – (225,709) – – – (225,709) (60,189)
Dividends to
non-controlling
interests and other – – – – – – (610) (610) (163)
Balance at
December 31, 2020 60,000 26,981 (3,264) 895,273 6,000 5,858 110,246 1,101,094 293,625
1. Appropriated retained earnings, originally established under the 1988 Articles of the Saudi Arabian Oil Company, represent a legal reserve which is not available for distribution.
This amount is maintained pursuant to the Bylaws adopted on January 1, 2018 (Note 1).
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan Amin H. Nasser Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh
Chairman of the Board President & Chief Executive Officer Senior Vice President,
Finance, Strategy & Development
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
– | – | – | 184,926 | – | – | (1,163) | 183,763 |  | 49,003
– | – | – | – | – | (3,966) | 110 | (3,856) |  | (1,028)
– | – | – | 184,926 | – | (3,966) | (1,053) | 179,907 |  | 47,975
– | – | – | – | – | – | 100,739 | 100,739 |  | 26,864
– | – | – | (7,722) | – | 7,722 | – | – |  | –
– | – | 486 | 44 | – | (530) | – | – |  | –
– | – | – | (24) | – | 556 | – | 532 |  | 142
– | – | – | (225,709) | – | – | – | (225,709) |  | (60,189)
– | – | – | – | – | – | (610) | (610) |  | (163)
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
60,000 | 26,981 | (3,264) | 895,273 | 6,000 | 5,858 | 110,246 | 1,101,094 |  | 293,625
[Page 182]
180 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
Consolidated statement of cash flows
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
Note 2020 2019 2020 2019
Income before income taxes and zakat 372,424 666,741 99,313 177,798
Adjustments to reconcile income before income taxes and zakat to
net cash provided by operating activities
Depreciation and amortization 6,7 76,208 50,266 20,322 13,404
Exploration and evaluation costs written off 7 3,544 3,217 945 858
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2,020 – 539 –
Inventory movement 4,181 (91) 1,115 (24)
Gain on remeasurement of existing interest in equity investments 28,35 – (1,278) – (341)
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 8 3,554 9,455 948 2,521
Finance income 28 (2,771) (5,534) (739) (1,476)
Finance costs 21 10,564 6,026 2,817 1,607
Dividends from investments in securities 28 (382) (509) (102) (136)
Change in fair value of investments through profit or loss 28 (620) 7 (165)
Change in joint ventures and associates inventory profit elimination 8 21 240 6 64
Other 794 1,257 211 335
Change in working capital
Inventories 15,890 1,960 4,237 523
Trade receivables 22,172 727 5,913 194
Due from the Government 7,886 12,083 2,103 3,222
Other assets and receivables (2,784) 3,268 (742) 872
Trade and other payables (16,250) 3,430 (4,333) 915
Royalties payable (6,472) 2,865 (1,726) 763
Other changes
Other assets and receivables (8,593) (9,951) (2,291) (2,654)
Provisions and other liabilities 1,344 330 358 88
Post-employment benefit obligations 123 1,119 33 298
Settlement of income, zakat and other taxes 9 (198,204) (328,472) (52,855) (87,592)
Net cash provided by operating activities 285,297 416,529 76,079 111,074
Capital expenditures 5 (101,030) (122,882) (26,942) (32,769)
Cash acquired on acquisition of subsidiary 4 27,515 – 7,337 –
Acquisition of affiliates, net of cash acquired 8,35 – (13,628) – (3,634)
Distributions from joint ventures and associates 8 2,601 778 694 207
Additional investments in joint ventures and associates 8,32 (537) (341) (143) (91)
Dividends from investments in securities 28 382 509 102 136
Interest received 3,698 4,561 987 1,216
Net investments in securities (599) (868) (160) (231)
Net maturities (purchases) of short-term investments 47,071 (45,273) 12,552 (12,073)
Net cash used in investing activities (20,899) (177,144) (5,573) (47,239)
Dividends paid to shareholders of the Company 36 (261,184) (274,388) (69,649) (73,170)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests in subsidiaries (718) (36) (191) (10)
Acquisition of treasury shares 17 – (3,750) – (1,000)
Proceeds from borrowings 87,520 51,960 23,339 13,856
Repayments of borrowings (42,125) (5,162) (11,233) (1,376)
Principal portion of lease payments (10,868) (7,740) (2,898) (2,064)
Interest paid (7,497) (5,715) (2,000) (1,524)
Net cash used in financing activities (234,872) (244,831) (62,632) (65,288)
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 29,526 (5,446) 7,874 (1,453)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 177,706 183,152 47,388 48,841
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 207,232 177,706 55,262 47,388
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan Amin H. Nasser Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh
Chairman of the Board President & Chief Executive Officer Senior Vice President,
Finance, Strategy & Development
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
372,424 | 666,741
50,266
3,217
–
(91)
(1,278)
9,455
(5,534)
6,026
(509)
(620)
240
1,257
1,960
727
12,083
3,268
3,430
2,865
(9,951)
330
1,119
(328,472) |  | 99,313
|  |  |
76,208 |  |  | 20,322
3,544 |  |  | 945
2,020 |  |  | 539
4,181 |  |  | 1,115
– |  |  | –
3,554 |  |  | 948
(2,771) |  |  | (739)
10,564 |  |  | 2,817
(382) |  |  | (102)
28 |  |  | 7
21 |  |  | 6
794 |  |  | 211
|  |  |
15,890 |  |  | 4,237
22,172 |  |  | 5,913
7,886 |  |  | 2,103
(2,784) |  |  | (742)
(16,250) |  |  | (4,333)
(6,472) |  |  | (1,726)
|  |  |
(8,593) |  |  | (2,291)
1,344 |  |  | 358
123 |  |  | 33
(198,204) |  |  | (52,855)
285,297 | 416,529 |  | 76,079
| (122,882)
–
(13,628)
778
(341)
509
4,561
(868)
(45,273) |  |
(101,030) |  |  | (26,942)
27,515 |  |  | 7,337
– |  |  | –
2,601 |  |  | 694
(537) |  |  | (143)
382 |  |  | 102
3,698 |  |  | 987
(599) |  |  | (160)
47,071 |  |  | 12,552
(20,899) | (177,144) |  | (5,573)
| (274,388)
(36)
(3,750)
51,960
(5,162)
(7,740)
(5,715) |  |
(261,184) |  |  | (69,649)
(718) |  |  | (191)
– |  |  | –
87,520 |  |  | 23,339
(42,125) |  |  | (11,233)
(10,868) |  |  | (2,898)
(7,497) |  |  | (2,000)
(234,872) | (244,831) |  | (62,632)
| (5,446)
183,152 |  |
29,526 |  |  | 7,874
177,706 |  |  | 47,388
207,232 | 177,706 |  | 55,262
[Page 183]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 181
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
1. General information
The Saudi Arabian Oil Company (the “Company”), with headquarters located in Dhahran, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (the “Kingdom”),
is engaged in prospecting, exploring, drilling and extracting hydrocarbon substances (“Upstream”) and processing, manufacturing,
refining and marketing these hydrocarbon substances (“Downstream”). The Company was formed on November 13, 1988 by Royal
Decree No. M/8; however, its history dates back to May 29, 1933 when the Saudi Arabian Government (the “Government”) granted
a concession to the Company’s predecessor the right to, among other things, explore the Kingdom for hydrocarbons.
On December 20, 2017, Royal Decree No. M/37 dated 2/4/1439H was issued approving the Hydrocarbons Law which applies to the
Kingdom’s hydrocarbons and hydrocarbon operations. Under the Hydrocarbons Law, all hydrocarbon deposits, hydrocarbons and
hydrocarbon resources are the property of the Kingdom until ownership is transferred at the well head or when extracted. Further,
the Hydrocarbons Law codifies the Government’s sole authority to set the maximum amount of hydrocarbons production by the
Company and the maximum sustainable capacity that the Company must maintain.
All natural resources within the Kingdom, including hydrocarbons, are owned by the Kingdom. Through a concession in 1933,
the Government granted the Company the exclusive right to explore, develop and produce the Kingdom’s hydrocarbon resources,
except in certain areas. As of December 24, 2017, the Company’s original concession agreement was replaced and superseded by
an amended concession agreement (the “Concession Agreement”) which provides the Company the exclusive right to explore, drill,
prospect, appraise, develop, extract, recover, and produce hydrocarbons in the concession area. The Company is also provided the
exclusive right to market and distribute hydrocarbons, petroleum products and liquid petroleum gas (“LPG”) in the Kingdom along
with the non-exclusive right to manufacture, refine, and treat production and to market, sell, transport and export such production.
The initial term of the Concession Agreement is for 40 years which shall be extended by the Government for 20 years unless the
Company does not satisfy certain conditions commensurate with its then current operating practices. In addition, the Concession
Agreement may be amended and extended for an additional 40 years beyond the original 60-year period subject to the Company
and the Government agreeing on the terms of such extension.
Effective January 1, 2018, Council of Minister’s Resolution No. 180, dated 1/4/1439H (December 19, 2017) converted the Company to
a Saudi Joint Stock Company with new Bylaws. The Company’s 1988 Articles were cancelled as of January 1, 2018 pursuant to Royal
Decree No. M/36, dated 2/4/1439H (December 20, 2017). The Company’s share capital has been set at Saudi Riyal (“SAR”) 60,000,
is fully paid and is divided into 200 billion ordinary shares with equal voting rights without par value. The Company’s Commercial
Registration Number is 2052101150.
On December 11, 2019, the Company completed its Initial Public Offering (“IPO”) and its ordinary shares were listed on the Saudi
Stock Exchange (“Tadawul”). In connection with the IPO, the Government, being the sole owner of the Company’s shares at such time,
sold an aggregate of 3.45 billion ordinary shares, or 1.73% of the Company’s share capital. In addition, concurrent with the IPO, the
Company acquired 117.2 million of its ordinary shares from the Government for a cash payment of SAR 3,750, which are being
classified as treasury shares (Note 17). These shares are for use by the Company for its employee share plans (Note 18).
The consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries (together “Saudi Aramco”) were approved by the Board
of Directors on March 18, 2021.
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
The consolidated financial statements provide comparative information in respect of the previous period.
(a) Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”),
that are endorsed in the Kingdom, and other standards and pronouncements issued by the Saudi Organization for Certified Public
Accountants (“SOCPA”). The consolidated financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”). Amounts and balances relating to Shari’a compliant financial instruments of the Company,
its subsidiaries and investments are disclosed separately. All other relevant amounts and balances relate to conventional financial
instruments.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except for certain items measured
at fair value which are, primarily, investments in securities, derivatives and certain trade receivables. The accounting policies that
follow have been consistently applied to all years presented, unless otherwise stated.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
| 0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 184]
182 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
In response to Novel Coronavirus (“COVID-19”), which has caused global economic disruption, Saudi Aramco has implemented active
prevention programs at its sites and contingency plans in order to minimize the risks related to COVID-19 and to safeguard the
continuity of business operations. Crude oil sales account for a substantial portion of the Company's revenue. Crude oil is also a
fundamental feedstock to the Company’s Downstream operations. The COVID-19 pandemic has had an adverse impact on oil demand,
which has led to an oversupply in global markets mostly during the second quarter of 2020, resulting in a reduction in crude oil prices.
The markets showed signs of recovery during the second half of 2020 as governments began to ease restrictions and the improved
economic activity translated into increased crude oil demand and higher prices. The increased prices have positively impacted Saudi
Aramco’s financial performance during the second half of 2020. Management has taken measures to optimize spending, which
resulted in reduced operational and capital expenditures during the year. Additionally, the Company entered into new financing
arrangements (Note 21) to ensure sufficient funding to meet forecasted cash flow requirements and limit any potential financial
exposure. Management continues to monitor the situation, including the impact on both results of operations and cash flows and
will take further actions as necessary.
(b) Fiscal regime changes
On September 17, 2019, the following significant changes to the fiscal regime under which the Company operates were announced
and are all effective January 1, 2020:
(i) T he Company and the Government executed an amendment to the Concession Agreement, which changed the effective royalty
rate applied to crude oil production based on the Company’s official selling prices. The effective royalty rate is determined based
on a baseline marginal rate of 15% (from 20%) applied to prices up to $70 per barrel, increasing to 45% (from 40%) applied to
prices above $70 per barrel and 80% (from 50%) applied to prices above $100 per barrel.
(ii) L PGs and certain other products were added to the price equalization mechanism to compensate the Company for revenue directly
forgone as a result of the Company’s compliance with the Government mandates related to domestic sales of those products by the
Company.
(iii) T he tax rate applicable to the Company’s Downstream activities was reduced from the 50% rate applicable to qualified domestic
oil and hydrocarbon production companies to the general corporate tax rate of 20% applicable to similar domestic downstream
companies under the Saudi Arabian Income Tax Law of 2004 and its amendments (the “Tax Law”). The new rate is conditioned
on the Company separating its Downstream activities under the control of one or more separate wholly owned subsidiaries before
December 31, 2024, otherwise, the Company’s Downstream activities will be retroactively taxed at 50%. The Company expects to
transfer all its Downstream activities into a separate legal entity or entities within the period specified (Note 9).
(iv) D uring 2020, the Tax Law was amended whereby shares held directly or indirectly in listed companies on the Tadawul by
taxpayers engaged in oil and hydrocarbon activities are exempt from the application of corporate income tax. As a result, the
Company’s ownership interests in Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (“SABIC”), Rabigh Refining and Petrochemical Company
(“Petro Rabigh”), National Shipping Company of Saudi Arabia (“Bahri”) and Saudi Electricity Company (“SEC”) are now subject
to zakat (Note 9).
(c) Significant accounting judgments and estimates
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to exercise judgment in
applying Saudi Aramco’s accounting policies and in the use of certain critical accounting estimates and assumptions concerning the
future. Management has made various judgments that may significantly impact the valuation and presentation of assets and liabilities.
In addition, management also applies judgment when undertaking the estimation procedures necessary to calculate assets, liabilities,
revenue and expenses. Accounting estimates, by definition, may not equal the related actual results and are subject to change
based on experience and new information. The areas requiring the most significant judgments, estimates and assumptions in the
preparation of the consolidated financial statements are: accounting for interests in subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates,
fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed on acquisition, recoverability of asset carrying amounts, determining the lease
term, taxation, provisions, post-retirement obligations and determination of functional currency and are set out in the individual
accounting policies below.
[Page 185]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 183
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
(d) New or amended standards
(i) S audi Aramco adopted the following IASB pronouncements, as endorsed in the Kingdom, effective for annual periods beginning
on or after January 1, 2020:
Interbank Offered Rate (“IBOR”) reform – Phase 1
In September 2019, the IASB amended IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, IFRS 7, Financial Instruments:
Disclosures, and IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, which modify some specific hedge accounting requirements to provide relief from
potential effects of the uncertainty caused by the IBOR reform in which the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) interest
benchmark will cease after 2021. The amendments, part of Phase 1 of a two-phase project for IBOR reform, also require companies
to provide additional information about their hedging relationships that are directly affected by these uncertainties. IBOR reforms
and expectation of cessation of LIBOR will impact Saudi Aramco’s current risk management strategy and possibly accounting
for certain financial instruments used for hedging. Saudi Aramco has recognized the following hedging instruments at fair value
(Note 3(d)) which are exposed to the impact of LIBOR with a nominal value of SAR 12,075:
• Financial Liabilities: SAR 874
Saudi Aramco uses financial instruments as part of its risk management strategy to manage exposures arising from variation of interest
rates that could affect net income or other comprehensive income and applies hedge accounting to these instruments. Saudi Aramco
has certain borrowings where the reference rate is linked to LIBOR. Saudi Aramco is establishing a transition plan that follows a risk
management approach to ensure a smooth transition to alternative reference rates. There is no material impact on Saudi Aramco’s
consolidated financial statements from adopting the Phase 1 amendments to IAS 39, IFRS 7, and IFRS 9.
Amendments to IFRS 3, Business Combinations
In October 2018, the IASB issued amendments to clarify the definition of a business in IFRS 3. To be considered a business, an acquired
set of activities and assets must include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the
ability to create outputs. The amendments include clarification that while businesses usually have outputs, outputs are not required
for an integrated set of activities and assets to qualify as a business. Additional guidance was also provided that helps to determine
whether a substantive process has been acquired. These amendments have been applied prospectively to all transactions for which
the acquisition date is on or after January 1, 2020. There is no material impact on Saudi Aramco’s consolidated financial statements
from adopting these amendments to IFRS 3.
Amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8 – Definition of Material
In October 2018, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements and IAS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes
in Accounting Estimates and Errors, effective January 1, 2020, to use a consistent definition of materiality throughout International
Financial Reporting Standards and the Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting, clarify when information is material and
incorporate some of the guidance in IAS 1 about immaterial information. There is no material impact on Saudi Aramco’s consolidated
financial statements from adopting these amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8.
(ii) T he following IASB pronouncement that is endorsed in the Kingdom will become effective for annual periods beginning on or
after January 1, 2021 has not been early adopted by Saudi Aramco:
IBOR reform – Phase 2
On August 27, 2020, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, IFRS 4, Insurance
Contracts, IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, and IFRS 16, Leases as part of Phase 2 of a two-
phase project for IBOR reform, which address issues that arise from the implementation of the reforms, including the replacement
of one benchmark with an alternative one. These amendments, effective January 1, 2021, include: (1) providing practical expedients
in relation to accounting for instruments to which the amortized cost measurement applies by updating the effective interest rate to
account for a change in the basis for determining the contractual cash flows without adjusting the carrying amount; (2) additional
temporary exceptions from applying specific hedge accounting requirements, including permitted changes to hedge designation
without the hedging relationship being discontinued when Phase 1 reliefs cease; and (3) additional disclosures related to IBOR reform,
including managing the transition to alternative benchmark rates, its progress and the risks arising from the transition, quantitative
information about financial instruments that have yet to transition to new benchmarks and changes in the entity’s risk management
strategy where this arises. Saudi Aramco is currently assessing the impact of these Phase 2 amendments.
There are no other standards, amendments and interpretations that are not yet effective that are expected to have a material impact
in the current or future reporting periods or on foreseeable future transactions.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 186]
184 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
(e) Principles of consolidation, acquisition and equity accounting
(i) Subsidiaries
The consolidated financial statements reflect the assets, liabilities and operations of the Company and its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries
are entities over which the Company has control. The Company controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable
returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries
are consolidated from the date on which the Company obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such
control ceases.
Intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealized profits and losses arising from intragroup transactions, have been
eliminated. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to align the accounting policies with
those used by the Company.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for business combinations, including those acquisitions of businesses under
common control that have commercial substance. Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred. The consideration transferred
for the acquisition of a subsidiary comprises the fair value of the assets transferred, liabilities incurred to the former owners of the
acquired business, equity interests issued by the group, the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration
arrangement and the fair value of any pre-existing equity interest in the subsidiary. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and
contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at fair value at the date the assets and liabilities are
exchanged, irrespective of the extent of any non-controlling interests. The excess of the consideration transferred and the amount
of any non-controlling interest in the acquired entity over the fair value of the acquired identifiable net assets is recorded as goodwill.
Where settlement of any part of the cash consideration is deferred, the amounts payable in the future are discounted to their present
value as of the date of exchange. The discount rate used is the entity’s incremental borrowing rate, being the rate at which a similar
borrowing could be obtained under comparable terms and conditions. At the acquisition date, any goodwill arising is allocated to
each of the cash-generating units, or groups of cash-generating units, expected to benefit from the business combination’s synergies.
Non-controlling interests represent the equity in subsidiaries that is not attributable, directly or indirectly, to Saudi Aramco.
Saudi Aramco recognizes any non-controlling interest in the acquired entity on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis either at fair value
or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquired entity’s net identifiable assets. Non-controlling interests in
the results and equity of subsidiaries are shown separately in the Consolidated Statements of Income, the Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, and the Consolidated Balance Sheet, respectively.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date carrying value of the previously held equity interest is
remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date with any gains or losses arising from such remeasurement recognized in net income.
(ii) Joint arrangements
Under IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements, an arrangement in which two or more parties have joint control is a joint arrangement. Joint
control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities
require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. Investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations
or joint ventures. The classification depends on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor, rather than the legal structure
of the joint arrangement. Saudi Aramco has both joint operations and joint ventures.
1) Joint operations
Joint operations arise where the investors have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities of a joint arrangement. In relation
to its interests in joint operations, Saudi Aramco recognizes its:
– Assets, including its share of any assets held jointly;
– Liabilities, including its share of any liabilities incurred jointly;
– Revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from the joint operation; and
– Expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly.
2) Joint ventures
A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net
assets of the joint arrangement. Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially
recognized at cost.
[Page 187]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 185
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
Saudi Aramco’s share of results of its joint ventures is recognized within net income, while its share of post-acquisition movements
in other comprehensive income is recognized within other comprehensive income. The cumulative effect of these changes is adjusted
against the carrying amount of Saudi Aramco’s investments in joint ventures, which is presented separately in the Consolidated
Balance Sheet. When Saudi Aramco’s share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the joint venture, including any
other unsecured non-current receivables, Saudi Aramco does not recognize further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made
payments on behalf of the joint venture.
Gains and losses on transactions between Saudi Aramco and joint ventures not realized through a sale to a third party are eliminated
to the extent of Saudi Aramco’s interest in the joint ventures. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of
joint ventures to align their accounting policies with those used by Saudi Aramco.
Saudi Aramco’s investments in joint ventures includes, when applicable, goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated
impairment loss. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of Saudi Aramco’s share of the net
identifiable assets of the acquired joint venture at the date of acquisition. Dilution gains and losses arising from investments in joint
ventures are recognized in net income.
Dividends received or receivable from joint ventures are recognized as a reduction in the carrying amount of the investment.
(iii) Associates
Associates are entities over which Saudi Aramco has significant influence. Significant influence is the power to participate in financial
and operating policy decisions but with no control or joint control over those policies and is generally reflected by a shareholding of
between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and
are initially recognized at cost. The accounting policies for joint ventures detailed in Note 2(e)(ii)(2) above are also applied by Saudi
Aramco to its associates.
Significant accounting judgments and estimates
Significant estimates relate to the acquisition of subsidiaries and require management to estimate the fair values of the assets acquired
and liabilities assumed (Notes 4 and 35). In addition, judgments are applied in the determination of whether control, joint control
or significant influence is present with respect to investments in non-wholly owned subsidiaries, joint arrangements or associates,
respectively. For control, judgment is applied when determining if an entity is controlled by voting rights, potential voting rights
or other rights granted through contractual arrangements and includes considering an entity’s purpose and design. For joint control,
judgment is applied when assessing whether the arrangement is jointly controlled by all of its parties or by a group of the parties
by taking decisions about relevant activities through unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. For joint control, judgment
is also applied as to whether the joint arrangement is classified as a joint venture or joint operation taking into account specific facts
and circumstances, such as the purpose and design of the arrangement, including with respect to its output, its relationship to the
parties and its source of cash flows. For significant influence, judgment is applied in its determination by assessing factors such
as representation on the board of directors, participation in policy-making processes, material transactions with the entity, interchange
of managerial personnel and provision of essential technical information. Refer to Notes 8, 38, and 39.
(f) Intangible assets
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill is not amortized but it is tested for impairment
annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired, and is carried at cost less
accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units or groups
of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the acquisition in which the goodwill arose. The units or groups of units
are identified at the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Intangible assets other than exploration and evaluation costs (Note 2(g)) and those with indefinite useful lives such as goodwill and
brand acquired on acquisition of SABIC (Note 4), consist primarily of brands and trademarks, franchise/customer relationships and
computer software. If acquired in a business combination, these intangible assets are recognized at their fair value at the date of
acquisition and, if acquired separately, these intangible assets are recognized at cost. All these intangible assets are subsequently
amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 188]
186 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
The following table sets forth estimated useful lives, in years, of the principal groups of these intangible assets:
Brands and trademarks 10 to 22
Franchise/customer relationships 5 to 25
Computer software 3 to 15
Amortization is recorded in depreciation and amortization in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
(g) Exploration and evaluation
Exploration and evaluation costs are recorded under the successful efforts method. Under the successful efforts method, geological
and geophysical costs are recognized as an expense when incurred and exploration costs associated with exploratory wells are initially
capitalized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as an intangible asset until the drilling of the well is complete and the results have
been evaluated. If potential commercial quantities of hydrocarbons are found, these costs continue to be capitalized subject to further
appraisal activities that would determine the commercial viability and technical feasibility of the reserves. If potentially commercial
quantities of hydrocarbons have not been found, and no alternative use of the well is determined, the previously capitalized costs are
written off to exploration in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Exploratory wells remain capitalized while additional appraisal drilling on the potential oil and/or gas field is performed or while
optimum development plans are established. All such capitalized costs are not subject to amortization, but at each reporting date
are subject to regular technical and management review to confirm the continued intent to develop, or otherwise extract value
from the well. Where such intent no longer exists, the costs are immediately written off to exploration in the Consolidated Statement
of Income. Capitalized exploratory expenditures are, at each reporting date, subject to review for impairment indicators.
When proved reserves of hydrocarbons are determined and there is a firm plan for development approved by management, the
relevant capitalized costs are transferred to property, plant and equipment.
(h) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment
losses, if any. Cost includes expenditures directly attributable to the construction and/or acquisition of the asset (Note 2(s)). Land and
construction-in-progress are not depreciated. When a construction-in-progress asset is deemed ready for use as intended by
management, depreciation commences.
Subsequent expenditures including major renovations are included in an asset’s carrying amount, or recognized as a separate asset
only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to Saudi Aramco and the cost of the item
can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced item is derecognized. All other repair and maintenance expenditures
are expensed as incurred. The present value of the expected cost for the decommissioning of an asset after its use is included in the
cost of the respective asset if the recognition criteria for a provision are met (Note 2(v)).
Where the life of expected hydrocarbon reserves substantially exceeds the economic or technical lives of the underlying assets,
the straight-line method of depreciation is used on a field-by-field basis. The unit of production method is used for fields where the
expected reserve life is approximately equal to or less than the estimated useful lives of the underlying assets. Depletion rates are
calculated on the basis of a group of wells or fields with similar characteristics based on proved developed reserves. The estimation
of expected reserve lives reflects management’s assessment of proved developed reserves and the related depletion strategy on
a field-by-field basis. Depreciation expense on all other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost less
residual values over the estimated useful lives. Depreciation expense is recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Depreciation expense is calculated after determining an estimate of an asset’s expected useful life and the expected residual value
at the end of its useful life. The useful lives and residual values are determined by management at the time the asset is initially
recognized and reviewed annually for appropriateness or when events or conditions occur that impact capitalized costs, hydrocarbon
reserves or estimated useful lives.
[Page 189]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 187
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
The following table sets forth estimated useful lives or, the lease term, if shorter, for right-of-use assets (Note 2(j)), in years of the
principal groups of depreciable assets:
Crude oil facilities:
Pipelines and storage tanks 12 to 23
Drilling and construction equipment 5 to 25
Oil and gas properties 15 to 30
Marine equipment 13 to 30
Refinery and petrochemical facilities 2 to 50
Gas and Natural Gas Liquids (“NGL”) facilities 2 to 30
General service plant:
Permanent buildings 20 to 40
Roads and walkways 10 to 20
Aircraft 8 to 17
Autos and trucks 3 to 20
Office furniture and equipment 6 to 8
Computer equipment 3 to 5
Net gains and losses on disposals of depreciable assets are recognized in net income. Right of use assets are depreciated over the life
of the asset or the lease term, if shorter (Note 2(j)).
(i) Impairment of non-financial assets
Saudi Aramco assesses, at each reporting date, whether there is an indication that a non-financial asset may be impaired except that
assets with indefinite useful lives such as goodwill and brand acquired on acquisition of SABIC (Note 4) are reviewed for impairment
on an annual basis. If an indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the asset’s recoverable amount
is estimated. An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal or value in use (“VIU”). The fair value less costs of
disposal calculation is based on either, post-tax discounted cash flow models or available data from binding arm’s length sales
transactions for similar assets, or observable market prices less incremental costs for disposing of the asset. The VIU calculation is
based on a post-tax risk adjusted discounted cash flow model. The use of post-tax discount rates in determining value in use does not
result in a materially different determination of the need for, or the amount of, impairment that would be required if pre-tax discount
rates had been used.
Impairment losses are recognized as a component of net income. If, in a subsequent period, the amount of a non-goodwill impairment
loss decreases, a reversal of the previously recognized impairment loss is recognized in net income.
Significant accounting judgments and estimates
Impairment tests are undertaken on the basis of the smallest identifiable group of assets (cash-generating unit), or individual assets,
for which there are largely independent cash inflows. The key assumptions used to determine the different cash-generating units
involves significant judgment from management.
For the purposes of determining whether impairment of oil, refining and petrochemical, gas and NGL, general service plant or
construction-in-progress assets has occurred, and the extent of any impairment or its reversal, the key assumptions management
uses in estimating future cash flows for its VIU calculations are forecasted future oil and gas and chemical prices, expected production
volumes, future operating and development costs, refining and petrochemical margins and changes to the discount rate used for
the discounted cash flow model. There is an inherent uncertainty over forecasted information and assumptions. Changes in these
assumptions and forecasts could impact the recoverable amounts of assets and any calculated impairment and reversals thereof.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
| 0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 190]
188 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
(j) Leases
Saudi Aramco’s portfolio of leased assets mainly comprises land and buildings, drilling rigs, marine vessels, industrial facilities,
equipment, storage and tanks, aircraft and vehicles. The determination of whether the contract is, or contains, a lease is based on the
substance of the contract at the inception of the lease. A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the
use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Saudi Aramco recognizes right-of-use assets and lease liabilities at the lease commencement date. Right-of-use assets are initially
measured at cost, which comprises lease liabilities at initial measurement, any initial direct costs incurred, any lease payments made
at or before the commencement date, and restoration costs less any lease incentives received. Subsequent to initial recognition the
right-of-use assets are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any, and adjusted for
any remeasurement of the lease liability. Right-of-use assets are depreciated over the shorter of the asset's useful life and the lease
term on a straight-line basis unless the lease transfers ownership of the underlying asset by the end of the lease term or if the cost
of the asset reflects the exercise of the purchase option, in which case right of use assets are depreciated over the useful life of the
underlying asset. Depreciation expense is recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Right-of-use assets are included under
property, plant and equipment (Note 6).
Lease liabilities are initially measured at the present value of lease payments. Lease payments include fixed lease payments, variable
lease payments that depend on an index or rate, amounts payable for guaranteed residual values and payments to be made under
extension or purchase or termination options, where applicable. The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit
in the lease. If that rate cannot be readily determined, which is generally the case, the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate is used,
being the rate that the individual lessee would have to pay to borrow the funds necessary to obtain an asset of similar value to the
right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment with similar terms, security and conditions. Subsequent to initial recognition,
the lease liabilities are measured by increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest on the lease liability, reducing the carrying
amount to reflect the lease payments made and adjusted for remeasurement to reflect any reassessments or lease modifications.
Lease liabilities are included under borrowings (Note 21). Lease payments are allocated between the principal and finance costs.
Finance costs are recorded as an expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income over the lease period so as to produce a constant
periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Saudi Aramco has elected not to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term and low-value leases. Lease payments
under short-term and low-value leases are recorded as an expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income on a straight-line basis
over the lease term.
Significant accounting judgments and estimates
In determining the lease term, management considers all facts and circumstances that create an economic incentive to exercise
an extension option, or not exercise a termination option. Extension options are only included in the lease term if the lease is
reasonably certain to not be terminated or to be extended. The assessment is reviewed if a significant event or a significant change
in circumstances occurs which affects this assessment and is within the control of the lessee.
(k) Investments and other financial assets
(i) Classification
Management determines the classification of its financial assets based on the business model for managing the financial assets and
the contractual terms of the cash flows. Saudi Aramco’s financial assets are classified in the following measurement categories:
• those to be measured subsequently at fair value (either through other comprehensive income or through profit or loss), and
• those to be measured at amortized cost.
For financial assets measured at fair value, gains and losses are recorded either in net income or other comprehensive income.
For investments in debt securities, this depends on the business model in which the investment is held. For investments in equity
instruments that are not held for trading, this depends on whether Saudi Aramco has made an irrevocable election at the time
of initial recognition, due to the strategic nature of these investments, to account for such equity investments at fair value through
other comprehensive income. Saudi Aramco reclassifies debt securities when and only when its business model for managing those
assets changes. Certain revenue contracts provide for provisional pricing at the time of shipment with the final pricing based on an
average market price for a particular future period. Such trade receivables are measured at fair value because the contractual cash
flows are not solely payments of principal and interest. All other trade receivables meet the criteria for amortized cost measurement
under IFRS 9.
[Page 191]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 189
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
(ii) Recognition and derecognition
Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognized on the trade-date, which is the date on which Saudi Aramco commits
to purchase or sell the asset. Financial assets are derecognized when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets have
expired or have been transferred and Saudi Aramco has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
(iii) Measurement
At initial recognition, Saudi Aramco measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value
through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset. Transaction costs of
financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are expensed as a component of net income. Saudi Aramco subsequently
measures all equity investments at fair value.
Equity investments:
Where Saudi Aramco has elected to present fair value gains and losses on equity investments in other comprehensive income, there is
no subsequent reclassification of fair value gains and losses to net income following the derecognition of the investment. Dividends from
such investments continue to be recognized as a component of net income when Saudi Aramco’s right to receive payments is established.
Changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are recognized as a component of net income.
Debt securities:
Subsequent measurement of debt securities depends on Saudi Aramco’s business model for managing the asset and the cash flow
characteristics of the asset. Debt securities are classified into the following three measurement categories:
1. Amortized cost:
Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest
are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. A gain or loss on a debt investment that is subsequently measured
at amortized cost and is not part of a hedging relationship is recognized as a component of net income when the asset is derecognized
or impaired. Interest income from these financial assets is included in finance income using the effective interest rate method.
2. Fair value through other comprehensive income (“FVOCI”):
Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and for selling the financial assets, where the assets’ cash flows represent
solely payments of principal and interest, are measured at FVOCI. Movements in the carrying amount are taken through other
comprehensive income, except for impairment gains or losses, interest income and foreign exchange gains and losses which are
recognized as a component of net income. When the financial asset is derecognized, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognized
in other comprehensive income is reclassified from equity to net income. Interest income from these financial assets is included in
finance income using the effective interest rate method.
3. Fair value through profit or loss (“FVPL”):
Assets that do not meet the criteria for amortized cost or FVOCI are measured at FVPL. A gain or loss on a debt investment that is
subsequently measured at FVPL and is not part of a hedging relationship is recognized as a component of net income in the period
in which it arises. Financial assets at FVPL are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the asset within
12 months from the end of the reporting period, in which case the asset is included in current assets.
Other financial assets:
Other financial assets are classified into the following categories:
1. Amortized cost:
Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest
are measured at amortized cost. A gain or loss on a financial asset that is subsequently measured at amortized cost and is not part of
a hedging relationship is recognized as a component of net income when the asset is derecognized or impaired. Interest income from
these financial assets is included in finance income using the effective interest rate.
Financial assets at amortized cost comprise cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, other assets and receivables, due from
the Government and trade receivables other than those subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss.
2. Fair value through profit or loss:
Trade receivables related to contracts with provisional pricing arrangements are subsequently measured at FVPL.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 192]
190 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
(iv) Impairment
Saudi Aramco assesses on a forward-looking basis the expected credit losses associated with debt securities carried at either amortized
cost or FVOCI. The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk.
For trade receivables, Saudi Aramco applies the simplified approach permitted by IFRS 9, which requires expected lifetime losses to be
recognized from initial recognition of the receivables.
(l) Derivative instruments and hedging activities
Saudi Aramco’s use of derivative instruments does not have a material effect on its financial position or results of operations.
(i) Derivative instruments classified as held for trading
Saudi Aramco uses commodity swap derivative financial instruments to manage exposure to price fluctuations which arise on
purchase and sale transactions for physical deliveries of various refined products. The swaps are initially recognized, and subsequently
remeasured at fair value and recorded as an asset, when the fair value is positive, or liability, when the fair value is negative, under
trade receivables or trade and other payables in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, respectively.
The fair value of the swap is determined in accordance with Saudi Aramco’s derivative valuation policy by reference to the traded price
of that instrument on the relevant exchange or over-the-counter markets at the Consolidated Balance Sheet date. The gain or loss from
the changes in the fair value of the swap from its value at inception is recognized in net income.
(ii) Derivative instruments designated as hedges
Saudi Aramco uses interest rate swaps and currency forward contracts to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and
foreign exchange rates. These derivative financial instruments, designated as either fair value or cash flow hedges, are purchased
from counterparties of high credit standing and are initially recognized, and subsequently remeasured, at fair value.
At the inception of the hedging transaction, Saudi Aramco documents the economic relationship between the hedging instrument
and the hedged item, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking the hedge transaction.
The fair value of a derivative financial instrument used for hedging purposes is classified as a current asset or liability when the
remaining maturity of the derivative is less than 12 months; otherwise, it is classified as a non-current asset or liability.
1) Fair value hedges
A fair value hedge is a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or firm commitment. Saudi Aramco designates certain
currency forward contracts as fair value hedges. The gain or loss from the changes in the fair value of the currency forward contracts
is recognized in net income, together with changes in the fair value of the hedged item.
2) Cash flow hedges
A cash flow hedge is a hedge of a particular risk associated with all or a component of a recognized asset or liability or a highly
probable forecast transaction, and could affect profit or loss. Any gain or loss relating to the effective portion of changes in the
fair value of interest rate swap contracts is recognized in other comprehensive income, with the ineffective portion recognized
immediately in net income.
Gains and losses deferred through other comprehensive income are reclassified to net income at the time the hedged item affects net
income. However, when a hedged item is a forecast transaction resulting in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial
liability, the gains and losses deferred through other comprehensive income, if any, are included in the initial cost or other carrying
amount of the asset or liability. When a hedging instrument expires, any cumulative gain or loss deferred through other comprehensive
income will remain until the forecast transaction is recognized. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the
cumulative gain or loss deferred through other comprehensive income is immediately reclassified to net income.
[Page 193]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 191
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
(m) Income tax and zakat
Income tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax expense. Income tax expense is recognized in net income,
except to the extent that it relates to items recognized in other comprehensive income. In this case, the related income tax is also
recognized in other comprehensive income.
Current income tax expense is calculated primarily on the basis of the Tax Law. In addition, income tax expense results from taxable
income generated by foreign affiliates.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method at tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the
reporting period and expected to apply when the related deferred income tax is realized or settled on temporary differences arising
between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. In estimating
such tax consequences, consideration is given to expected future events. Deferred income tax is not provided on initial recognition
of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than a business combination that, at the time of the transaction, does not affect either
the accounting profit or the taxable profit.
Deferred income tax assets are recognized where future recovery is probable. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset
when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current income tax assets against current income tax liabilities and when the
deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. Deferred income tax is not provided for taxes on possible future distributions
of retained earnings of subsidiaries where the timing of the distribution can be controlled and it is probable that the retained earnings
will be substantially reinvested by the entities.
Zakat is levied at the higher of adjusted income subject to zakat or the zakat base in accordance with the Regulations of the General
Authority of Zakat and Tax (“GAZT”) in the Kingdom. Zakat is computed using the zakat base. The zakat provision is charged to the
Consolidated Statement of Income.
Significant accounting judgments and estimates
Saudi Aramco establishes provisions, based on reasonable estimates, for potential claims by the tax authorities of the respective
countries in which it operates. The amount of such provisions is based on various factors, such as different interpretations of tax
regulations by the taxable entity and the responsible tax authority and the outcome of previous negotiations. This requires the
application of judgment as to the ultimate outcome, which can change over time depending on facts and circumstances. A change in
estimate of the likelihood of a future outflow and/or in the expected amount to be settled would be recognized in net income in the
period in which the change occurs. Deferred income tax assets are recognized only to the extent it is considered probable that those
assets are recoverable. This includes an assessment of when those assets are likely to reverse, and a judgment as to whether or not
there will be sufficient taxable income available to offset the assets when they do reverse. This requires assumptions regarding future
profitability. To the extent assumptions regarding future profitability change, there can be an increase or decrease in the amounts
recognized in respect of deferred income tax assets as well as in the amounts recognized in net income in the period in which the
change occurs.
Detailed taxation information, including current expense and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, is presented in Note 9.
(n) Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value. Cost comprises all expenses to bring inventories to their
present location and condition and, for hydrocarbon inventories, is determined using the first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) method. For
materials and supplies inventories, cost is determined using the weighted average method less an allowance for disposal of obsolete
and/or surplus materials and supplies. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less
applicable variable selling expenses.
(o) Due from the Government
The Government compensates the Company through price equalization (Note 2(z)) and for past due trade receivables of specified
Government, semi-Government and other entities with Government ownership or control to whom the Company supplies specified
products and services.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 194]
192 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
Revenue on sales to these specified Government, semi-Government and other entities with Government ownership or control is
recognized upon the satisfaction of performance obligations, which occurs when control transfers to these customers. Control of
the products is determined to be transferred when the title of products passes, which typically takes place when product is physically
transferred to these customers. Once receivables from these customers are past due, these trade receivables are reclassified as a due
from the Government current receivable.
Implementing regulations issued by the Government allow the Company to offset any amounts due from the Government against
payment of taxes, and in the event of insufficiency of tax balances, offset against any other amounts due and payable by the Company
to the Government. Balances due from the Government at December 31 represent amounts to be settled through offset against tax
payments.
(p) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand and in banks together with all highly liquid investments purchased with original
maturities of three months or less.
(q) Treasury shares
Treasury shares are recognized as a deduction from equity at the amount of consideration paid by the Company for their acquisition,
including any directly attributable transaction costs incurred.
(r) Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities at FVPL or as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost, as appropriate.
Management determines the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
Saudi Aramco’s financial liabilities are:
(i) Financial liabilities at FVPL
Derivative financial liabilities are categorized as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges (Note 2(l)). Derivative financial
liabilities held for trading are included in current liabilities under trade and other payables with gains or losses recognized in net
income.
(ii) Financial liabilities at amortized cost
Financial liabilities other than financial liabilities at FVPL are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost net of
transaction costs. Such financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized cost using
the effective interest method. Discounting is omitted when the effect is immaterial. Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost
are included in current liabilities, except for those with maturities greater than 12 months after the end of the reporting period,
which are classified as non-current liabilities.
Financial liabilities at amortized cost include trade and other payables and borrowings. Financial liabilities are disclosed separately
from financial assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheet unless there is a right to offset.
(s) Borrowing costs
Any difference between borrowing proceeds and the redemption value is recognized as finance costs in the Consolidated Statement
of Income over the term of the borrowing using the effective interest method.
Borrowing costs are expensed as incurred except for those costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a
qualifying asset which are capitalized as part of the cost of that asset until the asset is complete for its intended use or sale. Qualifying
assets are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for intended use or sale.
(t) Post-employment benefit plans
(i) Pension plans
Funded pension plans are non-contributory plans for the majority of employees and are generally funded by payments by Saudi
Aramco and where applicable by group companies to independent trusts or other separate entities. Assets held by the independent
trusts and other separate entities are held at their fair value. Valuations of both funded and unfunded plans are performed annually
by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The valuations take into account employees’ years of service,
average or final pensionable remuneration, and are discounted to their present value using interest rates of high-quality corporate
bonds that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related defined benefit obligation.
[Page 195]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 193
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
The amount recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the
defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The periodic pension cost included
in operating costs in the Consolidated Statement of Income in respect of defined benefit pension plans primarily represents the
increase in the actuarially assessed present value of the obligation for pension benefits based on employee service during the year
and the net interest on the net defined benefit liability or asset. Net interest is calculated by multiplying the defined benefit liability
and plan assets by the discount rate applied to each plan at the beginning of each year, amended for changes to the defined benefit
liability and plan assets as a result of benefit payments or contributions.
Past service costs, representing plan amendments, are recognized immediately as pension costs in the Consolidated Statement of
Income, regardless of the remaining vesting period.
Remeasurements representing actuarial gains and losses, arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions,
and the actual returns on plan assets excluding interest on plan assets, are credited or charged to equity, net of tax, through other
comprehensive income.
For defined contribution plans where benefits depend solely on the amount contributed to or due to the employee’s account and the
returns earned from the investment of those contributions, plan cost is the amount contributed by or due from Saudi Aramco and is
recognized as an expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
(ii) Other post-employment benefits
Saudi Aramco provides certain post-employment healthcare, life insurance and other benefits to retirees and certain former
employees. The entitlement is usually based on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a
minimum service period. To the extent these plans are not fully funded, a liability is recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Valuations of benefits are performed by independent actuaries.
Such plans follow the same accounting methodology as used for defined benefit pension plans.
Significant accounting judgments and estimates
The costs of defined benefit pension plans and post-employment medical benefits are determined using actuarial valuations.
The actuarial valuation involves making assumptions, which are reviewed annually. Key assumptions include discount rates, future
salary increases, future healthcare costs, mortality rates and future pension increases. Due to the complexity of the valuation, the
underlying assumptions and the long-term nature of these plans, such estimates are subject to significant uncertainty. Information
about amounts reported in respect of defined benefit plans, assumptions applicable to the plans and their sensitivity to changes are
presented in Note 22.
(u) Share-based compensation
The cost of an equity-settled award granted to employees is measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instrument on the
date the award is granted. This cost is recognized as an employee benefit expense in the income statement with a corresponding
increase in equity.
The cost of a cash-settled award granted to employees is measured by reference to the fair value of the liability at each balance sheet
date until settlement. This cost is recognized as an employee benefit expense in the income statement with the corresponding
recognition of a liability on the balance sheet.
The cost of both the equity-settled and cash-settled awards is recognized over the vesting period, which is the period over which the
employees render the required service for the award and any non-market performance condition attached to the award is required
to be met. Additionally, for a cash-settled award, any changes in the fair value of the liability between the vesting date and the date
of its settlement are also recognized in the income statement within employee benefit expense.
In determining the fair value of an equity-settled or cash-settled award, an appropriate valuation method is applied. Service and
non-market performance conditions are not taken into account in determining the fair value of the award, but during the vesting
period the likelihood of the conditions being met is assessed as part of the Company’s best estimate of the number of awards that
are expected to vest. Any market performance conditions and non-vesting conditions are taken into account in determining the
award’s fair value.
(v) Provisions and contingencies
Provisions are liabilities where the timing or amount of future expenditures is uncertain. Provisions are recognized when Saudi Aramco
has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of economic resources will be
required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 196]
194 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
Provisions are recorded at the best estimate of the present value of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the end of
the reporting period. Amounts are discounted, unless the effect of discounting is immaterial, using an appropriate discount rate
that reflects the current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the
provision due to the passage of time is recognized as interest expense within finance costs in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Saudi Aramco records a provision and a corresponding asset for decommissioning activities in Upstream operations for well plugging
and abandonment activities. The obligation for a well is recognized when it is drilled. Decommissioning provisions associated with
Downstream facilities are generally not recognized, as the potential obligations cannot be measured, given their indeterminate
settlement dates. The liability for decommissioning obligations will be recognized in the period when sufficient information becomes
available to estimate a range of potential settlement dates. Decommissioning costs are provided for at the present value of expected
costs to settle the obligation using estimated cash flows. The value of the obligation is added to the carrying amount of the related
asset and amortized over the useful life of the asset. The increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognized as finance
costs in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Changes in future cash flow estimates resulting from revisions to the estimated timing
or amount of undiscounted cash flows are recognized as a change in provision and related asset.
A contingent liability is disclosed where the existence of a possible obligation will only be confirmed by future events or where the
amount of a present obligation cannot be measured with reasonable reliability or it is not probable that there will be an outflow of
resources to settle that obligation. Contingent assets are not recognized, but are disclosed where the inflow of economic benefits is
probable.
Significant accounting judgments and estimates
Most of Saudi Aramco’s well plugging and abandonment activities are many years into the future with technology and costs
constantly changing. Estimates of the amounts of a provision are recognized based on current legal and constructive requirements and
costs associated to abandon using existing technologies. Actual costs are uncertain and estimates can vary as a result of changes in the
scope of the project and/or relevant laws and regulation. The estimated timing of decommissioning may change due to certain factors,
such as reserve life, a decision to terminate operations, or changes in legislation. Changes to estimates related to future expected costs,
discount rates and timing may have a material impact on the amounts presented. As a result, significant judgment is applied in the
initial recognition and subsequent adjustment of the provision and the capitalized cost associated with decommissioning, plugging
and abandonment obligations. Any subsequent adjustments to the provision are made prospectively. Detail on the particular
assumptions applied when making certain non-current provisions is included in Note 23.
(w) Foreign currency translation
The USD is the functional currency of the Company and most of its subsidiaries. Foreign currency transactions are translated into the
functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Any foreign currency monetary assets or
liabilities are translated at each reporting date using the prevailing reporting date exchange rate. Foreign exchange gains and losses
resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign
currencies are recognized as a component of net income. Non-monetary assets and liabilities, other than those measured at fair value,
are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transactions.
Significant accounting judgments and estimates
The Company has determined that USD is the functional currency as a substantial amount of its products are traded in USD in
international markets. However, a substantial amount of costs of the Company are denominated in SAR which has been exchanged at
a fixed rate to USD since 1986. A change in the fixed exchange rate could impact the recorded revenue, expenses, assets and liabilities
of the Company.
(x) Presentation currency
The consolidated financial statements are presented in SAR. The financial position and results of the operations of the Company,
subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates that have a functional currency which is different from the presentation currency
are translated at reporting date exchange rates and the average exchange rates that approximate the cumulative effect of rates
prevailing at the transaction dates, respectively. All resulting exchange differences are recognized through other comprehensive
income. On disposal of a foreign operation, the component of other comprehensive income relating to that foreign operation is
recognized in net income.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation and any fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities arising on the acquisition are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the spot rate of
exchange at the reporting date.
Translations from SAR to USD presented as supplementary information in the Consolidated Statement of Income, Consolidated
Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, and Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows at December 31, 2020 and 2019, are for convenience and were calculated at the rate of USD 1.00 = SAR 3.75
representing the exchange rate at the balance sheet dates.
[Page 197]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 195
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
(y) Revenue recognition and sales prices
Revenue from sales of crude oil and related products is recognized upon the satisfaction of performance obligations, which occurs
when control transfers to the customer. Control of the products is determined to be transferred to the customer when the title of
crude oil and related products passes to the customer, which typically takes place when product is physically transferred into a vessel,
pipe or other delivery mechanism.
Revenue contracts for crude and certain related products provide for provisional pricing at the time of shipment, with final pricing
based on the average market price for a particular future period. Revenue on these contracts is recorded based on the estimate of
the final price at the time control is transferred to the customer. Any difference between the estimate and the final price is recorded
as a change in fair value of the related receivable, as part of revenue, in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Where applicable the
transaction price is allocated to the individual performance obligations of a contract based on their relative stand-alone selling prices.
(z) Other income related to sales
The Government compensates the Company through price equalization for revenue directly forgone as a result of the Company’s
compliance with local regulations governing domestic sales and distribution of certain liquid products, LPG and other products
(Note 2(b)(ii)). This compensation reflected in these consolidated financial statements, is calculated by the Company as the difference
between the product’s equalization price and the corresponding domestic regulated price, net of Government fees, in accordance
with the implementing regulations issued by the Government in 2017 and 2019.
This compensation is recorded as other income related to sales, that is taxable, when the Company has satisfied its performance
obligations through transfer of the title to the buyer, which occurs when product is physically transferred. The compensation due
from the Government is characterized as a due from the Government (Note 2(o)) current receivable and is recognized initially at
fair value and subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method less impairment losses, if any.
The implementing regulations allow the Company to offset any amounts due from the Government against payment of taxes, and
in the event of insufficiency of tax balances, offsetting may extend against any other amounts due and payable by the Company to
the Government.
(aa) Production royalties
Royalties to the Government are calculated based on a progressive scheme applied to crude oil and condensate production. An
effective royalty rate is applied to production based on the Company’s official selling prices. The effective royalty rate is determined
based on a baseline marginal rate of 15% applied to prices up to $70 per barrel, increasing to 45% applied to prices above $70 per
barrel and 80% applied to prices above $100 per barrel (Note 2(b)(i)). All such royalties are accounted for as an expense in the
Consolidated Statement of Income and are deductible costs for Government income tax calculations.
(bb) Research and development
Development costs that are expected to generate probable future economic benefits are capitalized as intangible assets and amortized
over their estimated useful life. During the period of development, the asset is tested for impairment annually. All other research and
development costs are recognized in net income as incurred.
(cc) Dividends
Provision is made for the amount of any dividend declared, being appropriately authorized and no longer at the discretion of the
Company, on or before the end of the reporting period but not distributed at the end of the reporting period.
(dd) Earnings per share
(i) Basic earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing:
• the net income attributable to the ordinary shareholder of the Company;
• by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the reporting period, adjusted for bonus elements in
ordinary shares issued during the period and excluding treasury shares.
(ii) Diluted earnings per share
Diluted earnings per share adjusts the figures used in the determination of basic earnings per share to take into account:
• the after income tax effect of interest and other financing costs associated with dilutive potential ordinary shares; and
• the weighted average number of additional ordinary shares that would have been outstanding assuming the conversion of all
dilutive potential ordinary shares.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 198]
196 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
3. Financial risk management
Saudi Aramco operates internationally but has limited exposure to financial risks. Financial risks include market risk (including
foreign currency exchange risk, price risk, and interest rate risk), credit risk, and liquidity risk. Financial risk management is carried
out primarily by a central treasury department. The adequacy of financial risk management policies is regularly reviewed with
consideration of current activities and market conditions on a consolidated basis. Saudi Aramco uses derivative financial instruments
with limited complexity to manage certain risk exposures and does not enter into or trade financial instruments, including derivative
financial instruments, for speculative purposes.
(a) Financial risk factors
(i) Market risk
1) Foreign currency exchange risk – The risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate due to
changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Saudi Aramco operates internationally but has limited exposure to financial risk due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates
as most significant transactions are denominated in its functional currency (Note 2(w)), are linked to its functional currency or are
hedged. Saudi Aramco’s limited foreign currency exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions or recognized assets or
liabilities denominated in a currency that is not Saudi Aramco’s functional currency. In addition, a substantial amount of costs of
Saudi Aramco are denominated in SAR which has been at a fixed rate to USD since 1986. A change in the fixed exchange rate would
result in foreign exchange differences being recognized in the consolidated financial statements.
Saudi Aramco engages foreign currency hedging activities through the use of currency forward contracts to manage its exchange
exposure from significant transactions denominated in a foreign currency. The hedge ratio considers variability in potential outcomes,
spot rates, as well as interest rates, and on a transaction by transaction basis, can cover up to 100% of the exposure at inception.
The notional amounts of outstanding currency forward contracts designated as hedging instruments are included in Note 31.
2) Price risk – The risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market
prices. Price risk primarily stems from investments in securities and commodity trading.
a) Investments in securities
Saudi Aramco has limited exposure to price risk with such risk arising from investments in securities carried at fair value.
Saudi Aramco regularly reviews its positions in investments in securities considering current and expected future economic trends.
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, a change in fair value due to a movement of 5% in the price of listed equity securities would result
in a change in other comprehensive income before income taxes of SAR 403 and SAR 412, respectively.
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, a change in fair value due to a movement of 5% in the unit price of equities and mutual and hedge
funds would result in a change in income before income taxes of SAR 124 and SAR 173, respectively.
b) Commodity swaps
Saudi Aramco trades refined, natural gas liquid, and bulk petrochemical products and uses commodity swaps as a means of managing
price and timing of risks arising from this trading. In effecting these transactions, Saudi Aramco operates within policies and
procedures designed to ensure that risks, including those related to the default of counterparties, are managed within authorized
limits. The notional amounts of outstanding commodity swap contracts are included in Note 31.
3) Interest rate risk – The risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in
market interest rates.
Saudi Aramco is exposed to interest rate risk from changes in interest rates that affect the fair value or future cash flows of financial
instruments, principally borrowings, issued at variable and fixed rates. Borrowings issued at variable rates expose Saudi Aramco to
cash flow interest rate risk which is partially offset by short-term time deposits and debt securities held at variable rates. Borrowings
issued at fixed rates expose Saudi Aramco to fair value interest rate risk. Saudi Aramco may enter into interest rate swap agreements
as part of its overall strategy to manage the interest rate risk on its debt.
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, a change of 1% in market interest rates, with all other variables held constant, would result in a net
change of SAR 696 and SAR 435, respectively, in Saudi Aramco’s income before income taxes as a result of the effect of higher or
lower market interest rates.
The notional amounts of interest rate swap contracts are included in Note 31.
[Page 199]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 197
3. Financial risk management continued
(ii) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that counterparties might not fulfill their contractual payment obligations towards an entity.
Saudi Aramco is exposed to credit risk related to its counterparties not performing or honoring their obligations which would result
in financial loss. Credit risk arises from credit exposures on trade receivables as well as from cash and cash equivalents, short-term
investments, debt securities, and derivatives with financial institutions. The maximum exposure to credit risk is the carrying value
of these assets.
Saudi Aramco’s trade receivables arise from a global customer base which limits geographic concentrations of credit risk. Moreover,
a credit risk policy is in place to ensure credit limits are extended to creditworthy counterparties and risk mitigation measures are
defined and implemented accordingly. Saudi Aramco performs ongoing evaluations of its counterparties’ financial standing and takes
additional measures to mitigate credit risk when considered appropriate by means of letter of credits, bank guarantees or parent
company guarantees.
In addition, the credit policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any individual counterparty based on their credit rating as well as
other factors. Moreover, Saudi Aramco’s investment policy limits exposure to credit risk arising from investment activities. The policy
requires that cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments be invested with a diversified group of financial institutions with
acceptable credit ratings. Saudi Aramco ensures that each counterparty is of an acceptable credit quality by relying on quantitative
and qualitative measures compiled from internal and third party rating models. At December 31, 2020, all the short-term investments
were with financial institutions assigned a long-term credit rating of “BBB” (2019: “BBB”) or above.
Employee home loans (Note 10) and debt securities are generally considered to have low credit risk based on history of default and
thus the impairment provision recognized during the year based on the general approach allowed by IFRS 9, where applicable, was
substantially limited to 12-month expected losses.
Saudi Aramco applies the simplified approach allowed by IFRS 9 in providing for expected credit losses for trade receivables which
uses the lifetime expected credit loss provision for all trade receivables. Such credit losses have historically been nominal and the loss
allowance for trade receivables (Note 13) is not material.
(iii) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that an entity will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with financial liabilities.
Saudi Aramco’s liquidity risk management includes maintaining sufficient cash and cash equivalents and ensuring the availability
of incremental funding through credit facilities (Note 21). Management also monitors and forecasts Saudi Aramco’s liquidity
requirements based on current and non-current expected cash flows.
Saudi Aramco invests surplus cash in current accounts, time deposits, money market deposits, government repurchase agreements,
and marketable securities, choosing instruments with appropriate maturities or sufficient liquidity to meet forecasted cash flow
requirements. Saudi Aramco prioritizes security and liquidity over yield.
Note 21 analyzes Saudi Aramco’s borrowings into relevant maturity groupings based on the balances associated with each contractual
maturity date at the end of the reporting period.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
| 0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 200]
198 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
3. Financial risk management continued
(b) Capital structure management
Saudi Aramco seeks to maintain a prudent capital structure, comprised of borrowings and shareholders’ equity, to support its capital
investment plans and maintain a sustainable, growing dividend profile. Maintaining sufficient financial flexibility is considered
strategically important to mitigate industry cyclicality while also enabling the pursuit of organic and inorganic investment opportunities.
Borrowings or dividends will result in an adjustment to Saudi Aramco’s capital structure. Saudi Aramco’s debt to equity ratio at the end of
the reporting year was as follows:
2020 2019
Total liabilities 813,167 447,891
Less: cash and cash equivalents (207,232) (177,706)
Net debt 605,935 270,185
Total equity 1,101,094 1,046,235
Net debt to equity ratio 55% 26%
(c) Casualty loss risk retention
Saudi Aramco’s casualty loss risk strategy includes a risk retention and insurance program, including providing coverage to certain
joint arrangements and associates limited to Saudi Aramco’s percentage interest in the relevant entity. Current maximum risk retention
is SAR 3,138 per loss event (2019: SAR 2,490) and various insurance limits apply, of which the risk retention forms a part. Should a
credible loss event occur, the maximum insurance limit above beyond retention is SAR 4,550 (2019: SAR 4,875) per event dependent
on the circumstances.
(d) Fair value estimation
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset
or transfer the liability takes place either in the principal market for the asset or liability or, in the absence of a principal market, in the
most advantageous market for the asset or liability. Management believes that the fair values of Saudi Aramco’s financial assets and
liabilities that are measured and recognized at amortized cost are not materially different from their carrying amounts at the end of
the reporting period.
Saudi Aramco measures financial instruments such as derivatives, equity investments and debt securities classified as FVPL, and equity
investments and debt securities classified as FVOCI, at fair value at each balance sheet date. Saudi Aramco uses valuation techniques
that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximizing the use of
relevant observable inputs and minimizing the use of unobservable inputs. All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured
or disclosed in the financial statements are categorized within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level
input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole:
• Level 1 – Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
• Level 2 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or
indirectly observable
• Level 3 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable
[TABLE DATA]
|
813,167 |
(207,232) |
605,935 |
|
1,101,094 |
55% |
[Page 201]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 199
3. Financial risk management continued
The following table presents Saudi Aramco’s assets and liabilities measured and recognized at fair value at the years ended December
31, 2020 and 2019, based on the prescribed fair value measurement hierarchy on a recurring basis. Saudi Aramco did not measure any
financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value on a non-recurring basis at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Assets Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
2020
Investments in securities:
Equity securities at FVOCI 8,051 174 1,475 9,700
Debt securities at FVOCI 21 6,948 – 6,969
Equity securities at FVPL 870 1,219 3,495 5,584
Debt securities at FVPL 53 – – 53
Trade receivables related to contracts with provisional pricing arrangements – – 54,402 54,402
8,995 8,341 59,372 76,708
Other assets and receivables:
Commodity swaps – 291 17 308
Currency forward contracts – 275 – 275
Financial assets against options – 1,863 – 1,863
– 2,429 17 2,446
Total assets 8,995 10,770 59,389 79,154
2019
Investments in securities:
Equity securities at FVOCI 8,246 – 1,244 9,490
Debt securities at FVOCI 1 4,563 – 4,564
Equity securities at FVPL – 1,265 4,918 6,183
Trade receivables related to contracts with provisional pricing arrangements – – 75,723 75,723
8,247 5,828 81,885 95,960
Other assets and receivables:
Interest rate swaps – 13 – 13
Commodity swaps – 288 – 288
Currency forward contracts – 30 – 30
– 331 – 331
Total assets 8,247 6,159 81,885 96,291
Liabilities Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
2020
Trade and other payables:
Interest rate swaps – 874 – 874
Commodity swaps 78 159 28 265
Currency forward contracts – 212 – 212
Provisions and other liabilities:
Financial liability against options – 1,995 – 1,995
Total liabilities 78 3,240 28 3,346
2019
Trade and other payables:
Interest rate swaps – 338 – 338
Commodity swaps – 521 – 521
Currency forward contracts – 109 – 109
Total liabilities – 968 – 968
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
8,051 | 174 | 1,475 |  | 9,700
21 | 6,948 | – |  | 6,969
870 | 1,219 | 3,495 |  | 5,584
53 | – | – |  | 53
– | – | 54,402 |  | 54,402
8,995 | 8,341 | 59,372 |  | 76,708
|  |  |  |
– | 291 | 17 |  | 308
– | 275 | – |  | 275
– | 1,863 | – |  | 1,863
– | 2,429 | 17 |  | 2,446
8,995 | 10,770 | 59,389 |  | 79,154
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
– | 874 | – |  | 874
78 | 159 | 28 |  | 265
– | 212 | – |  | 212
|  |  |  |
– | 1,995 | – |  | 1,995
78 | 3,240 | 28 |  | 3,346
[Page 202]
200 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
3. Financial risk management continued
The valuation techniques for Saudi Aramco’s investments in securities are described in Note 11. The changes in Level 3 investments in
securities for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 are as follows:
2020 2019
January 1 6,162 5,530
Acquisition 262 –
Net (disposals) additions (1,681) 286
Net movement in unrealized fair value (299) 296
Realized gain 526 50
December 31 4,970 6,162
The movement in trade receivables related to contracts with provisional pricing arrangements mainly relates to sales transactions, net
of settlements, made during the period, resulting from contracts with customers (Note 13). Unrealized fair value movements on these
trade receivables are not significant.
The change in commodity swaps primarily relate to purchase and sales derivative contracts including recognition of a gain or loss that
results from adjusting a derivative to fair value. Fair value movements on these commodity swaps are not significant.
4. Acquisition of SABIC
On June 16, 2020, the Company acquired a 70% equity interest in SABIC from the Public Investment Fund ("PIF"), for SAR 259,125
($69,100). This equates to SAR 123.39 ($32.90) per share.
SABIC is a global diversified chemicals company headquartered in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. SABIC manufactures on a global scale in the
Americas, Europe, Middle East, and Asia Pacific, making different products, including chemicals, commodity and high-performance
plastics, specialties, agri-nutrients and metals. The acquisition of the equity interest in SABIC is consistent with Saudi Aramco’s
long-term Downstream strategy to grow its integrated refining and petrochemicals capacity and create value from integration across
the hydrocarbon value chain.
The transaction resulted in the Company obtaining control of SABIC. The Company accounts for acquisitions of subsidiaries using the
acquisition method of accounting, including those acquisitions under common control and having commercial substance. This requires
recognition of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value as of the acquisition date.
Saudi Aramco has engaged an independent valuer in order to determine the fair values of the assets and liabilities of SABIC as part of
the purchase price allocation. The preliminary fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities are as follows:
Cash and cash equivalents 27,515
Trade receivables 13,829
Inventories 24,919
Other current assets and receivables 4,803
Short-term investments 8,405
Property, plant and equipment (Note 6) 179,313
Intangible assets (Note 7) 37,079
Investments in joint ventures and associates 51,864
Other non-current assets 11,598
Trade and other payables (23,460)
Income tax and zakat payable (4,178)
Current borrowings (8,149)
Non-current borrowings (37,174)
Post-employment benefit obligations (16,549)
Other non-current liabilities (9,067)
Total identified net assets at fair value 260,748
Non-controlling interests (100,739)
Goodwill (Note 7) 99,116
Purchase consideration in the form of promissory notes 259,125
Non-controlling interests which result from both the Company’s partial ownership of SABIC, as well as SABIC’s partial ownership of a
number of its subsidiaries, were measured at their proportionate share of recognized net assets.
[TABLE DATA]
|
6,162 |
262 |
(1,681) |
(299) |
526 |
4,970 |
27,515
13,829
24,919
4,803
8,405
179,313
37,079
51,864
11,598
(23,460)
(4,178)
(8,149)
(37,174)
(16,549)
(9,067)
260,748
(100,739)
99,116
259,125
[Page 203]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 201
4. Acquisition of SABIC continued
The purchase price amount is to be paid over several installments pursuant to a seller loan provided by PIF. Loan payments, which are
represented by promissory notes denominated in US Dollars, are as follows:
Principal loan
amount Loan charge
On or before August 2, 2020 26,250 –
On or before April 7, 2021 18,750 –
On or before April 7, 2022 31,875 1,875
On or before April 7, 2023 39,375 1,875
On or before April 7, 2024 39,375 2,250
On or before April 7, 2025 39,375 3,000
On or before April 7, 2026 64,125 5,625
On or before April 7, 2027 – 3,750
On or before April 7, 2028 – 3,750
Total purchase price and loan charges 259,125 22,125
Payments during the period (26,250) –
Total amount of outstanding installments 232,875 22,125
The combined fair value of the principal loan amounts and loan charges on the date of acquisition amounted to SAR 259,125 ($69,100).
This is subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method and is presented on a combined basis as ‘Deferred
consideration’ within ‘Borrowings’ (Note 21).
Saudi Aramco has also agreed to make an accelerated payment of SAR 11,250 ($3,000) in April 2022 based on the occurrence of
certain market conditions in 2021. If the accelerated payment is made, it will reduce the principal amount that would otherwise be
payable on or before April 2026 by SAR 11,250 ($3,000) and the loan charge in April 2022 will be reduced from SAR 1,875 ($500)
to SAR 750 ($200).
The provisional goodwill of SAR 99,116 arising from the transaction includes synergies expected from the transaction, representing
value chain capture through downstream integration, procurement, supply chain, manufacturing, marketing and sales, future
customer relationships and intangibles such as acquired work force. Goodwill has been provisionally allocated to the Downstream
operating segment, which is expected to benefit from the synergies of the acquisition.
Acquisition and transaction costs of SAR 343 were expensed as selling, administrative and general expenses in the Consolidated
Statement of Income.
SABIC contributed revenues of SAR 64,659 and net loss of SAR 2,426 to Saudi Aramco for the period from June 16, 2020 to December
31, 2020. If the acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2020, management estimates that consolidated pro-forma revenue and net
income for the year ended December 31, 2020 would have been SAR 809,204 and SAR 179,168, respectively. These amounts have
been calculated using SABIC’s results and adjusting them mainly for depreciation, amortization and unwinding adjustments that
would have been recorded assuming the acquisition-date fair value adjustments had applied from January 1, 2020.
5. Operating segments
Saudi Aramco is engaged in prospecting, exploring, drilling, extracting, processing, manufacturing, refining and marketing
hydrocarbon substances within the Kingdom and has interests in refining, petrochemical, distribution, marketing and storage facilities
outside the Kingdom.
Saudi Aramco’s operating segments are established on the basis of those components that are evaluated regularly by the CEO,
considered to be the Chief Operating Decision Maker. The Chief Operating Decision Maker monitors the operating results of Saudi
Aramco’s operating segments separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Segment performance is evaluated based on revenues, costs and a broad range of key performance indicators in addition to segment
profitability.
For management purposes, Saudi Aramco is organized into business units based on the main types of activities. At December 31, 2020,
Saudi Aramco had two reportable segments, Upstream and Downstream, with all other supporting functions aggregated into a
Corporate segment. Upstream activities include crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids exploration, field development and
production. Downstream activities, which now include SABIC’s operations from the date of acquisition, consist primarily of refining and
petrochemical manufacturing, supply and trading, distribution and power generation, logistics, and marketing of crude oil and related
services to international and domestic customers. Corporate activities include primarily supporting services including Human Resources,
Finance and IT not allocated to Upstream and Downstream. Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm’s length basis in
a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
26,250 | –
18,750 | –
31,875 | 1,875
39,375 | 1,875
39,375 | 2,250
39,375 | 3,000
64,125 | 5,625
– | 3,750
– | 3,750
259,125 | 22,125
(26,250) | –
232,875 | 22,125
[Page 204]
202 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
5. Operating segments continued
The accounting policies used by Saudi Aramco in reporting segments internally are the same as those contained in Note 2 of the
consolidated financial statements. There are no differences from the 2019 consolidated financial statements in the basis of segmentation
or in the basis of measurement of segment earnings before interest, income taxes and zakat, except for some limited changes in the
pricing basis of certain inter-segment transactions between Upstream and Downstream.
Information by segments is as follows:
Upstream Downstream Corporate Eliminations Consolidated
2020
External revenue 410,956 355,787 1,366 – 768,109
Other income related to sales 38,878 55,104 – – 93,982
Inter-segment revenue 155,636 30,330 304 (186,270) –
Share of results of joint ventures and associates (4) (3,401) (149) – (3,554)
Depreciation and amortization (39,702) (30,888) (5,618) – (76,208)
Dividends and other income – 408 3 – 411
Earnings (losses) before interest, income taxes and zakat 413,214 (20,170) (17,041) 4,214 380,217
Finance income 2,771
Finance costs (10,564)
Income before income taxes and zakat 372,424
Capital expenditures – cash basis 73,651 26,097 1,282 – 101,030
2019
External revenue 709,250 395,099 1,347 – 1,105,696
Other income related to sales 34,446 96,643 – – 131,089
Inter-segment revenue 226,699 35,677 292 (262,668) –
Share of results of joint ventures and associates (3) (9,371) (81) – (9,455)
Depreciation and amortization (30,855) (14,350) (5,061) – (50,266)
Dividends and other income – 1,800 17 – 1,817
Earnings (losses) before interest, income taxes and zakat 689,894 (3,478) (13,098) (6,085) 667,233
Finance income 5,534
Finance costs (6,026)
Income before income taxes and zakat 666,741
Capital expenditures – cash basis 93,927 26,696 2,259 – 122,882
Information by geographical area is as follows:
Out-of-
In-Kingdom Kingdom Total
2020
External revenue 538,360 229,749 768,109
Property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, investments in joint ventures and associates 1,245,524 194,459 1,439,983
2019
External revenue 871,451 234,245 1,105,696
Property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, investments in joint ventures and associates 900,938 130,936 1,031,874
Sales to external customers by region are based on the location of the Saudi Aramco entity, which made the sale. Out-of-Kingdom
revenue includes sales of SAR 110,652 originating from the United States of America (“USA”) (2019: SAR 119,325).
Property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and investments in joint ventures and associates by region are based on the location
of the Saudi Aramco entity holding the assets.
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
410,956 | 355,787 | 1,366 | – |  | 768,109
38,878 | 55,104 | – | – |  | 93,982
155,636 | 30,330 | 304 | (186,270) |  | –
(4) | (3,401) | (149) | – |  | (3,554)
(39,702) | (30,888) | (5,618) | – |  | (76,208)
– | 408 | 3 | – |  | 411
413,214 | (20,170) | (17,041) | 4,214 |  | 380,217
|  |  |  |  | 2,771
|  |  |  |  | (10,564)
|  |  |  |  | 372,424
|  |  |  |  |
73,651 | 26,097 | 1,282 | – |  | 101,030
|  |  |
|  |  |
538,360 | 229,749 |  | 768,109
1,245,524 | 194,459 |  | 1,439,983
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
[Page 205]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 203
6. Property, plant and equipment
Refinery and
Crude oil petrochemical Gas and NGL General Construction-
facilities facilities facilities service plant in-progress Total
Cost
January 1, 2020 537,299 231,049 396,400 108,582 291,482 1,564,812
Additions1 8,965 4,881 484 6,144 102,024 122,498
Acquisition (Note 4) – 150,889 – – 28,424 179,313
Construction completed 67,333 24,853 58,232 28,937 (179,355) –
Currency translation differences – 7,158 – (2) 816 7,972
Transfers and adjustments2 (17) 9 40 (724) (1,922) (2,614)
Transfer of exploration and evaluation assets – – – – 1,102 1,102
Retirements and sales (1,717) (4,900) (362) (3,509) (121) (10,609)
December 31, 2020 611,863 413,939 454,794 139,428 242,450 1,862,474
Accumulated depreciation
January 1, 2020 (271,105) (78,033) (174,300) (59,360) – (582,798)
Charge for the year (23,910) (23,189) (17,476) (8,135) – (72,710)
Currency translation differences – (4,568) – – – (4,568)
Transfers and adjustments 9 (215) 32 (47) – (221)
Retirements and sales 699 4,572 345 1,667 – 7,283
December 31, 2020 (294,307) (101,433) (191,399) (65,875) – (653,014)
Property, plant and equipment – net,
December 31, 2020 317,556 312,506 263,395 73,553 242,450 1,209,460
Cost
January 1, 2019 503,281 205,233 361,141 88,482 257,607 1,415,744
Adjustment for change in accounting policy 6,337 8,005 254 11,455 – 26,051
Additions1 4,929 3,545 164 2,559 110,995 122,192
Acquisitions (Note 35) – 10,395 – – 1,329 11,724
Derecognition on acquisition of joint operation
(Note 35(a)(i)) – (5,240) – – (977) (6,217)
Construction completed 25,517 12,764 34,647 6,865 (79,793) –
Currency translation differences – (1,892) – – (98) (1,990)
Transfers and adjustments (646) 513 307 (23) 300 451
Transfer of exploration and evaluation assets – – – – 2,119 2,119
Retirements and sales (2,119) (2,274) (113) (756) – (5,262)
December 31, 2019 537,299 231,049 396,400 108,582 291,482 1,564,812
Accumulated depreciation
January 1, 2019 (253,544) (74,438) (160,220) (53,715) – (541,917)
Charge for the year (18,729) (10,213) (13,828) (6,370) – (49,140)
Derecognition on acquisition of joint operation
(Note 35(a)(i)) – 4,231 – – – 4,231
Currency translation differences – 659 – – – 659
Transfers and adjustments (25) (510) (354) 18 – (871)
Retirements and sales 1,193 2,238 102 707 – 4,240
December 31, 2019 (271,105) (78,033) (174,300) (59,360) – (582,798)
Property, plant and equipment – net,
December 31, 2019 266,194 153,016 222,100 49,222 291,482 982,014
1. Borrowing cost capitalized during the year ended December 31, 2020, amounted to SAR 1,316 (2019: SAR 1,443).
2. Saudi Aramco recognized write-down of SAR 2,631 on certain downstream facilities, including a facility under construction of SAR 1,741.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
537,299 | 231,049 | 396,400 | 108,582 | 291,482 |  | 1,564,812
8,965 | 4,881 | 484 | 6,144 | 102,024 |  | 122,498
– | 150,889 | – | – | 28,424 |  | 179,313
67,333 | 24,853 | 58,232 | 28,937 | (179,355) |  | –
– | 7,158 | – | (2) | 816 |  | 7,972
(17) | 9 | 40 | (724) | (1,922) |  | (2,614)
– | – | – | – | 1,102 |  | 1,102
(1,717) | (4,900) | (362) | (3,509) | (121) |  | (10,609)
611,863 | 413,939 | 454,794 | 139,428 | 242,450 |  | 1,862,474
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
(271,105) | (78,033) | (174,300) | (59,360) | – |  | (582,798)
(23,910) | (23,189) | (17,476) | (8,135) | – |  | (72,710)
– | (4,568) | – | – | – |  | (4,568)
9 | (215) | 32 | (47) | – |  | (221)
699 | 4,572 | 345 | 1,667 | – |  | 7,283
(294,307) | (101,433) | (191,399) | (65,875) | – |  | (653,014)
317,556 | 312,506 | 263,395 | 73,553 | 242,450 |  | 1,209,460
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
[Page 206]
204 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
6. Property, plant and equipment continued
Additions to right-of-use assets during the year ended December 31, 2020 were SAR 16,278 (2019: SAR 9,670). Acquisition of right-of-
use assets during the year ended December 31, 2020 were SAR 7,003 (2019: SAR 207). The following table presents depreciation
charges and carrying amounts of right-of-use assets by class of assets.
Depreciation Depreciation
expense for expense for
the year Net carrying the year Net carrying
ended amount at ended amount at
December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31,
2020 2020 2019 2019
Crude oil facilities 3,624 11,163 2,591 8,202
Refinery and petrochemical facilities 2,597 17,336 1,276 10,045
Gas and NGL facilities 163 395 178 190
General service plant 4,118 24,844 3,634 22,222
10,502 53,738 7,679 40,659
7. Intangible assets
Exploration Franchise/
and Brands and customer Computer
Goodwill evaluation1 trademarks relationships software Other2 Total
Cost
January 1, 2020 1,077 21,913 4,791 1,764 4,428 1,680 35,653
Additions – 3,894 – – 226 197 4,317
Acquisition (Note 4) 99,116 – 18,215 17,985 260 619 136,195
Currency translation differences 11 – 20 23 42 143 239
Transfers and adjustments – (1) 51 55 142 259 506
Transfer of exploration and evaluation assets – (1,102) – – – – (1,102)
Retirements and write offs – (3,544) – – (33) (49) (3,626)
December 31, 2020 100,204 21,160 23,077 19,827 5,065 2,849 172,182
Accumulated amortization
January 1, 2020 – – (1,448) (866) (2,835) (382) (5,531)
Charge for the year – – (405) (572) (437) (343) (1,757)
Currency translation differences – – (11) (8) (30) (89) (138)
Transfers and adjustments – – (51) (55) (1) (161) (268)
Retirements and write offs – – – – 33 26 59
December 31, 2020 – – (1,915) (1,501) (3,270) (949) (7,635)
Intangible assets – net, December 31, 2020 100,204 21,160 21,162 18,326 1,795 1,900 164,547
1. Cash used for exploration and evaluation operating activities in 2020 was SAR 3,749 (2019: SAR 4,074) and expenditures for investing activities were SAR 3,894 (2019: SAR 8,333).
2. O ther intangible assets include licenses and usage rights of SAR 652 (2019: SAR 762), patents and intellectual property of SAR 629 (2019: SAR 536) and new intangible assets
recognized as a result of the acquisition of SABIC consisting of technology and licenses of SAR 619.
[TABLE DATA]
|  |
3,624 | 11,163 |
2,597 | 17,336 |
163 | 395 |
4,118 | 24,844 |
10,502 | 53,738 |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
1,077 | 21,913 | 4,791 | 1,764 | 4,428 | 1,680 |  | 35,653
– | 3,894 | – | – | 226 | 197 |  | 4,317
99,116 | – | 18,215 | 17,985 | 260 | 619 |  | 136,195
11 | – | 20 | 23 | 42 | 143 |  | 239
– | (1) | 51 | 55 | 142 | 259 |  | 506
– | (1,102) | – | – | – | – |  | (1,102)
– | (3,544) | – | – | (33) | (49) |  | (3,626)
100,204 | 21,160 | 23,077 | 19,827 | 5,065 | 2,849 |  | 172,182
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
– | – | (1,448) | (866) | (2,835) | (382) |  | (5,531)
– | – | (405) | (572) | (437) | (343) |  | (1,757)
– | – | (11) | (8) | (30) | (89) |  | (138)
– | – | (51) | (55) | (1) | (161) |  | (268)
– | – | – | – | 33 | 26 |  | 59
– | – | (1,915) | (1,501) | (3,270) | (949) |  | (7,635)
100,204 | 21,160 | 21,162 | 18,326 | 1,795 | 1,900 |  | 164,547
[Page 207]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 205
7. Intangible assets continued
Exploration Franchise/
and Brands and customer Computer
Goodwill evaluation1 trademarks relationships software Other2 Total
Cost
January 1, 2019 580 18,916 4,827 1,263 4,310 1,577 31,473
Additions – 8,333 – – 303 65 8,701
Acquisitions (Note 35) 527 – – 544 57 – 1,128
Derecognition on acquisition of joint operation
(Note 35(a)(i)) – – – – (84) – (84)
Currency translation differences (9) – (84) (43) – (63) (199)
Transfers and adjustments (21) – 48 – (114) 101 14
Transfer of exploration and evaluation assets – (2,119) – – – – (2,119)
Retirements and write offs – (3,217) – – (44) – (3,261)
December 31, 2019 1,077 21,913 4,791 1,764 4,428 1,680 35,653
Accumulated amortization
January 1, 2019 – – (1,046) (715) (2,541) (275) (4,577)
Charge for the year – – (424) (174) (368) (160) (1,126)
Derecognition on acquisition of joint operation
(Note 35(a)(i)) – – – – 45 – 45
Currency translation differences – – 22 23 – 53 98
Transfers and adjustments – – – – (15) – (15)
Retirements and write offs – – – – 44 – 44
December 31, 2019 – – (1,448) (866) (2,835) (382) (5,531)
Intangible assets – net, December 31, 2019 1,077 21,913 3,343 898 1,593 1,298 30,122
1. Cash used for exploration and evaluation operating activities in 2020 was SAR 3,749 (2019: SAR 4,074) and expenditures for investing activities were SAR 3,894 (2019: SAR 8,333).
2. O ther intangible assets include licenses and usage rights of SAR 652 (2019: SAR 762), patents and intellectual property of SAR 629 (2019: SAR 536) and new intangible assets
recognized as a result of the acquisition of SABIC consisting of technology and licenses of SAR 619.
As a result of the acquisition of SABIC (Note 4) certain new intangible assets have been recognized. These are being amortized
on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, with the exception of the goodwill arising from the transaction, which has
an indefinite useful life, and the SABIC brand, which has been determined to have an indefinite useful life and are not subject
to amortization.
Saudi Aramco performed an annual impairment test for the goodwill acquired as part of the SABIC acquisition, which is provisionally
allocated to the Downstream operating segment. The recoverable amount of the Downstream operating segment was determined
based on VIU calculations which require use of certain assumptions. The calculations used cash flow projections for a period of 10 years
based on financial plans approved by management. Cash flows were discounted and aggregated with a terminal value. Management
estimate for the cash flows is based on past performance and management’s expectation of the future. This includes management’s
forecast for prices and margins for the downstream operations. Growth rate used in the terminal value calculation represents long-term
inflation forecast. Pre-tax discount rate of 7.8% was applied to the cash flows. As a result of the analysis, management did not identify
any impairment of goodwill related to the SABIC acquisition.
Saudi Aramco also performed an annual impairment test for the brand acquired as part of the SABIC acquisition. The impairment test
was performed by aggregating the relevant cash-generating units. Cash flows were calculated in the same way as for the goodwill
impairment test. The cash flows were discounted using the pre-tax discount rate of 7.8%. As a result of the analysis, management did
not identify any impairment.
Management believes a reasonable range of increase or decrease in any of the assumptions within the projected cash flows would not
change the outcome of the impairment analysis for the goodwill or the brand.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 208]
206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
8. Investments in joint ventures and associates
Carrying Carrying
Equity amount at amount at
ownership Principal place December 31, December 31,
Company 2020/2019 of business Nature of activities 2020 2019
Saudi Yanbu Petrochemical Company
(“Yanpet”)1 50%/Nil Saudi Arabia Petrochemical 11,311 –
Clariant AG (“Clariant”)1,5 31.5%/Nil Switzerland Specialty chemical 8,913 –
Sinopec SABIC Tianjin Petrochemical Company People’s Republic
(“SSTPC”)1 50%/Nil of China Petrochemical 7,621 –
Eastern Petrochemical Company (“Sharq”)1 50%/Nil Saudi Arabia Petrochemical 6,783 –
Al-Jubail Petrochemical Co ("Kemya")1 50%/Nil Saudi Arabia Petrochemical 5,696 –
Refining/marketing/
Hyundai Oilbank Co.,Ltd. ("Hyundai Oilbank")3 17% South Korea petrochemical 3,853 4,372
Power & Water Utility Company for Jubail and 49.7%/
Yanbu (“Marafiq”)7 24.8% Saudi Arabia Utilities 3,630 1,877
National Shipping Company of Saudi Arabia
(“Bahri”)5 20% Saudi Arabia Global logistics services 2,263 2,063
Fujian Refining and Petrochemical Company People’s Republic
Limited (“FREP”) 25% of China Refining/petrochemical 2,172 2,070
Sadara Chemical Company (“Sadara”)2,4,6 65% Saudi Arabia Petrochemical 1,746 4,483
Aluminium Bahrain BSC (“ALBA”)1,5 20.6%/Nil Bahrain Aluminum 1,660 –
Ma’aden Phosphate Company (“MPC”)1 30%/Nil Saudi Arabia Agri-Nutrients 1,632 –
Ma’aden Wa’ad Al Shamal Phosphate Company
(“MWSPC”)1,3 15%/Nil Saudi Arabia Agri-Nutrients 1,426 –
Rabigh Refining and Petrochemical Company
(“Petro Rabigh”)4,5 37.5% Saudi Arabia Refining/petrochemical 1,096 2,458
Other 6,174 2,415
65,976 19,738
1. On June 16, 2020, SABIC became a subsidiary of the Company and as a result, Saudi Aramco acquired interest in its joint ventures/associates (Note 4). Equity ownership represents
SABIC’s shareholding in these investments.
2. Agreements and constitutive documents do not give a single shareholder control; therefore, the joint venture/associate does not qualify as a subsidiary and has not been consolidated.
3. Agreements and constitutive documents provide Saudi Aramco significant influence over this entity.
4. Saudi Aramco has provided guarantees as described in Note 34.
5. L isted company.
6. During the year ended December 31, 2019, Sadara’s management identified certain indicators of impairment, which required a detailed impairment assessment of Sadara’s long-lived
assets. As a result of the assessment, Sadara recognized an impairment loss of SAR 9,225 for the year ended December 31, 2019 of which Saudi Aramco’s share was SAR 5,996.
7. Saudi Aramco’s existing interest increased due to the acquisition of SABIC, which also has an interest in Marafiq.
The components of the change in the investments in joint ventures and associates for the years ended December 31 are as follows:
Joint ventures Associates
2020 2019 2020 2019
January 1 5,698 12,425 14,040 10,154
Acquisitions (Notes 4, 35) 33,269 385 18,595 4,414
Share of results of joint ventures and associates (1,749) (9,435) (1,805) (20)
Additional investment 263 2,860 274 285
Distributions (867) (89) (1,734) (689)
Change in elimination of profit in inventory (230) 27 209 (267)
Share of other comprehensive (loss) income (303) (479) 853 (8)
Reclassification between joint venture and associate 374 – (374) 171
Other (257) 4 (280) –
December 31 36,198 5,698 29,778 14,040
[TABLE DATA]
|
11,311 |
8,913 |
7,621 |
6,783 |
5,696 |
3,853 |
3,630 |
2,263 |
2,172 |
1,746 |
1,660 |
1,632 |
1,426 |
1,096 |
6,174 |
65,976 |
|  |  |
|  |  |
5,698 | 12,425
385
(9,435)
2,860
(89)
27
(479)
–
4 |  | 14,040
33,269 |  |  | 18,595
(1,749) |  |  | (1,805)
263 |  |  | 274
(867) |  |  | (1,734)
(230) |  |  | 209
(303) |  |  | 853
374 |  |  | (374)
(257) |  |  | (280)
36,198 | 5,698 |  | 29,778
[Page 209]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 207
8. Investments in joint ventures and associates continued
Summarized financial information (100%) for joint ventures and associates and reconciliation with the carrying amount of the
investments in the consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2020, are set out below. Statement of comprehensive income
is presented for the full year including for entities acquired during the year:
Summarized Balance Sheet
At December 31, 2020
Hyundai
Yanpet1 Clariant1 SSTPC1 Sharq1 Kemya1 Oilbank Marafiq2 Bahri FREP
Current assets:
Cash and cash equivalents 543 3,126 3,024 454 204 738 372 543 4,281
Other 3,706 10,894 1,533 4,850 3,224 9,949 2,463 3,538 4,329
Total current assets 4,249 14,020 4,557 5,304 3,428 10,687 2,835 4,081 8,610
Non-current assets 4,406 24,930 11,323 12,865 12,244 33,720 19,672 16,865 8,899
Current liabilities:
Financial liabilities
(excluding trade and other payables) 964 1,688 1,371 776 1,713 3,234 1,076 885 691
Other 481 7,083 958 680 491 7,294 949 1,485 2,959
Total current liabilities 1,445 8,771 2,329 1,456 2,204 10,528 2,025 2,370 3,650
Non-current liabilities 1,424 14,760 4,113 2,816 3,126 17,220 12,796 8,154 5,170
Net assets 5,786 15,419 9,438 13,897 10,342 16,659 7,686 10,422 8,689
Saudi Aramco interest 50% 31.5% 50% 50% 50% 17% 49.7% 20% 25%
Saudi Aramco share 2,893 4,857 4,719 6,949 5,171 2,832 3,814 2,084 2,172
Fair value and other adjustments at
Saudi Aramco level 8,418 4,056 2,902 (166) 525 1,021 (184) 179 –
Investment balance at December 31 11,311 8,913 7,621 6,783 5,696 3,853 3,630 2,263 2,172
1. Saudi Aramco interest represents SABIC’s shareholding in these investments.
2. Saudi Aramco’s existing interest increased due to the acquisition of SABIC, which also has an interest in Marafiq.
Summarized Statement of Comprehensive Income
Year ended December 31, 2020
Hyundai
Yanpet Clariant SSTPC Sharq Kemya Oilbank Marafiq Bahri FREP
Revenue 5,139 15,713 6,652 6,944 6,679 32,720 3,854 9,064 21,029
Depreciation and amortization 562 1,141 622 1,363 909 1,388 1,192 876 1,379
Conventional interest income 5 64 105 4 2 327 11 – 64
Interest expense 45 428 76 33 135 536 219 294 291
Income tax expense 27 407 135 90 38 (662) 71 94 47
Net income (loss) 998 (721) 410 298 672 (1,364) 319 1,787 172
Dividends received from JVs/associates 348 1,247 – 350 105 105 56 149 79
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
| 0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
543 | 3,126 | 3,024 | 454 | 204 | 738 | 372 | 543 | 4,281
3,706 | 10,894 | 1,533 | 4,850 | 3,224 | 9,949 | 2,463 | 3,538 | 4,329
4,249 | 14,020 | 4,557 | 5,304 | 3,428 | 10,687 | 2,835 | 4,081 | 8,610
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
4,406 | 24,930 | 11,323 | 12,865 | 12,244 | 33,720 | 19,672 | 16,865 | 8,899
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
964 | 1,688 | 1,371 | 776 | 1,713 | 3,234 | 1,076 | 885 | 691
481 | 7,083 | 958 | 680 | 491 | 7,294 | 949 | 1,485 | 2,959
1,445 | 8,771 | 2,329 | 1,456 | 2,204 | 10,528 | 2,025 | 2,370 | 3,650
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
1,424 | 14,760 | 4,113 | 2,816 | 3,126 | 17,220 | 12,796 | 8,154 | 5,170
5,786 | 15,419 | 9,438 | 13,897 | 10,342 | 16,659 | 7,686 | 10,422 | 8,689
50% | 31.5% | 50% | 50% | 50% | 17% | 49.7% | 20% | 25%
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
2,893 | 4,857 | 4,719 | 6,949 | 5,171 | 2,832 | 3,814 | 2,084 | 2,172
8,418 | 4,056 | 2,902 | (166) | 525 | 1,021 | (184) | 179 | –
11,311 | 8,913 | 7,621 | 6,783 | 5,696 | 3,853 | 3,630 | 2,263 | 2,172
5,139 | 15,713 | 6,652 | 6,944 | 6,679 | 32,720 | 3,854 | 9,064 | 21,029
562 | 1,141 | 622 | 1,363 | 909 | 1,388 | 1,192 | 876 | 1,379
5 | 64 | 105 | 4 | 2 | 327 | 11 | – | 64
45 | 428 | 76 | 33 | 135 | 536 | 219 | 294 | 291
27 | 407 | 135 | 90 | 38 | (662) | 71 | 94 | 47
998 | (721) | 410 | 298 | 672 | (1,364) | 319 | 1,787 | 172
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
348 | 1,247 | – | 350 | 105 | 105 | 56 | 149 | 79
[Page 210]
208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
8. Investments in joint ventures and associates continued
Summarized financial information (100%) for individually immaterial joint ventures and associates are set out below:
Joint
ventures Associates
Net loss (3,257) (3,628)
Summarized financial information (100%) for joint ventures and associates and reconciliation with the carrying amount of the
investments in the consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2019 are set out below:
Summarized Balance Sheet
At December 31, 2019
Hyundai Petro
Oilbank Bahri FREP Sadara Rabigh
Current assets:
Cash and cash equivalents 1,556 164 3,012 1,611 316
Other 13,245 2,878 6,429 6,780 11,147
Total current assets 14,801 3,042 9,441 8,391 11,463
Non-current assets 35,670 17,206 9,506 57,559 62,509
Current liabilities:
Financial liabilities (excluding trade and other payables) 4,226 733 688 5,080 17,372
Other 9,030 1,249 3,811 2,102 10,517
Total current liabilities 13,256 1,982 4,499 7,182 27,889
Non-current liabilities 10,793 8,846 6,168 51,517 36,043
Net assets 26,422 9,420 8,280 7,251 10,040
Saudi Aramco interest 17% 20% 25% 65% 37.5%
Saudi Aramco share 4,492 1,884 2,070 4,713 3,765
Fair value and other adjustments at Saudi Aramco level (120) 179 – (230) (1,307)
Investment balance at December 31 4,372 2,063 2,070 4,483 2,458
[TABLE DATA]
(3,257) | (3,628)
[Page 211]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 209
8. Investments in joint ventures and associates continued
Summarized Statement of Comprehensive Income
Year ended December 31, 2019
Hyundai Petro
Oilbank Bahri FREP Sadara Rabigh
Revenue 2,814 6,409 31,017 10,108 42,420
Depreciation and amortization 6 933 1,381 3,850 2,973
Conventional interest income 8 – 67 – 384
Interest expense 29 566 325 2,448 1,225
Income tax expense 12 91 107 76 225
Net income (loss) 42 477 271 (14,653) (650)
Dividends received from JVs/associates – 158 390 – –
Summarized financial information (100%) for individually immaterial joint ventures and associates are set out below:
Joint
ventures Associates
Net income 174 439
Saudi Aramco’s share of the fair value of the listed associates at December 31 together with their carrying value at those dates is as
follows:
Fair value Carrying value
2020 2019 2020 2019
Clariant 8,380 – 8,913 –
Petro Rabigh 4,540 7,115 1,096 2,458
Bahri 3,193 3,150 2,263 2,063
ALBA 1,450 – 1,660 –
9. Income taxes and zakat
(a) Kingdom income tax rates
The Company is subject to an income tax rate of 20% on the activities of exploration and production of non-associated natural gas,
including gas condensates, as well as the collection, treatment, processing, fractionation and transportation of associated and
non-associated natural gas and their liquids, gas condensates and other associated elements, and an income tax rate of 50% on all
other activities, in accordance with the Tax Law.
Effective January 1, 2020, the tax rate applicable to the Company’s Downstream activities was reduced from the 50% rate applicable
to qualified domestic oil and hydrocarbon production companies to the general corporate tax rate of 20% applicable to similar
domestic downstream companies under the Tax Law. The new rate is conditional on the Company separating its Downstream activities
under the control of one or more separate wholly owned subsidiaries before December 31, 2024, otherwise the Company’s
Downstream activities will be retroactively taxed at 50%. The Company expects to transfer all its Downstream activities into a separate
legal entity or entities within the period specified (Note 2(b)(iii)).
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
8,380 | –
7,115
3,150
– |  | 8,913
4,540 |  |  | 1,096
3,193 |  |  | 2,263
1,450 |  |  | 1,660
[Page 212]
210 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
9. Income taxes and zakat continued
During 2020, the Tax Law was amended, effective January 1, 2020, whereby shares held directly or indirectly in listed companies
on the Tadawul by taxpayers engaged in oil and hydrocarbon activities are exempt from the application of corporate income tax.
As a result, the Company’s ownership interests in SABIC, Petro Rabigh, Bahri and SEC are now subject to zakat (Note 2(b)(iv)).
The reconciliation of tax charge at the Kingdom statutory rates to consolidated tax and zakat expense is as follows:
2020 2019
Income before income taxes and zakat 372,424 666,741
Less: Income subject to zakat (3,754) –
Income subject to income tax 368,670 666,741
Income taxes at the Kingdom’s statutory tax rates 178,808 328,721
Tax effect of:
Impact of change in income tax rates on deferred tax – 2,655
Income not subject to tax at statutory rates and other 9,082 4,672
Income tax expense 187,890 336,048
Zakat expense 771 –
Total income tax and zakat expense 188,661 336,048
(b) Income tax and zakat expense
2020 2019
Current income tax – Kingdom 173,534 319,979
Current income tax – Foreign 614 353
Deferred income tax – Kingdom:
Impact of change in income tax rates – 2,655
Charge for the period 16,932 12,610
Deferred income tax – Foreign (3,190) 451
Zakat – Kingdom 771 –
188,661 336,048
Saudi Aramco paid foreign taxes of SAR 427 and SAR 437 for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Income tax credit recorded through other comprehensive income was SAR 9,331 for the year ended December 31, 2020 (2019: income
tax expense of SAR 1,542).
(c) Income tax and zakat obligation to the Government
2020 2019
January 1 62,243 70,299
Acquisition 3,288 –
Provided during the period 174,305 319,979
Payments during the period by the Company (Note 29) (72,582) (149,780)
Payments during the period by subsidiaries and joint operations (2,806) (1,023)
Settlements of due from the Government (116,872) (172,301)
Other settlements (5,517) (4,931)
December 31 42,059 62,243
[TABLE DATA]
|
372,424 |
(3,754) |
368,670 |
|
178,808 |
|
|
– |
9,082 |
187,890 |
771 |
188,661 |
|
173,534 |
614 |
|
– |
16,932 |
(3,190) |
771 |
188,661 |
|
62,243 |
3,288 |
174,305 |
(72,582) |
(2,806) |
(116,872) |
(5,517) |
42,059 |
[Page 213]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 211
9. Income taxes and zakat continued
(d) Deferred income tax
2020 2019
Deferred income tax assets:
Kingdom 13,749 12,386
U.S. Federal and State 84 31
Other foreign 1,447 311
15,280 12,728
Deferred income tax liabilities:
Kingdom 48,019 37,943
U.S. Federal and State 2,469 3,312
Other foreign 3,133 3,216
53,621 44,471
Net deferred income tax liabilities (38,341) (31,743)
The gross movement of the net deferred income tax position is as follows:
2020 2019
January 1 (31,743) (14,011)
Acquisition (2,176) –
Impact of change in income tax rate – charge to income – (2,655)
Impact of change in income tax rate – Other reserves – (284)
Current period charge to income (13,742) (13,061)
Adjustments to equity – Other reserves 9,331 (1,258)
Other adjustments (11) (474)
December 31 (38,341) (31,743)
2020 2019
Deferred income tax to be settled after more than 12 months (38,341) (31,743)
Deferred income tax to be recovered within 12 months – –
Net deferred income tax liabilities (38,341) (31,743)
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|
|
13,749 |
84 |
1,447 |
15,280 |
|
|
48,019 |
2,469 |
3,133 |
53,621 |
(38,341) |
|
(31,743) |
(2,176) |
– |
– |
(13,742) |
9,331 |
(11) |
(38,341) |
|
(38,341) |
– |
(38,341) |
[Page 214]
212 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
9. Income taxes and zakat continued
The movement in deferred income tax assets (liabilities) for the years ended December 31 is as follows:
Property
Post- plant and
employment equipment Investments
benefit Investment Undistributed Provisions Loss carry- and in securities
obligations in subsidiary earnings and other forward intangibles at FVOCI Total
January 1, 2019
Deferred tax assets 1,873 – – 1,192 7,088 (287) – 9,866
Deferred tax liabilities 9,379 (3,632) (780) 9,060 3,357 (39,631) (1,630) (23,877)
11,252 (3,632) (780) 10,252 10,445 (39,918) (1,630) (14,011)
Recognized during the year
Impact of change in income
tax rate (464) – – (457) – (2,198) 180 (2,939)
Current period credits
(charges) to income 194 (1,196) 44 2,095 3,637 (17,835) – (13,061)
Impact of adoption
of IFRS 16 – – – 7,906 – (7,906) – –
Other reserves charges (526) – – – – – (732) (1,258)
Other adjustments – – – (474) – – – (474)
(796) (1,196) 44 9,070 3,637 (27,939) (552) (17,732)
December 31, 2019
Deferred tax assets 3,328 – – 653 9,263 (516) – 12,728
Deferred tax liabilities 7,128 (4,828) (736) 18,669 4,819 (67,341) (2,182) (44,471)
10,456 (4,828) (736) 19,322 14,082 (67,857) (2,182) (31,743)
Recognized during the year
Acquisition 631 – (86) (2,721) – – – (2,176)
Current period (charges)
credits to income (524) 309 35 2,869 7,595 (24,026) – (13,742)
Other reserves credits 7,395 – – – – – 1,936 9,331
Other adjustments – – – (11) – – – (11)
7,502 309 (51) 137 7,595 (24,026) 1,936 (6,598)
December 31, 2020
Deferred tax assets 4,301 – – 1,650 9,983 (654) – 15,280
Deferred tax liabilities 13,657 (4,519) (787) 17,809 11,694 (91,229) (246) (53,621)
17,958 (4,519) (787) 19,459 21,677 (91,883) (246) (38,341)
To reflect the change in income tax rate effective January 1, 2020 for Downstream activities, in 2019, deferred tax liabilities, net of
deferred tax assets, were increased by SAR 2,939, of which SAR 2,655 was recognized as an increase of income taxes in the
Consolidated Statement of Income, and SAR 284 was recognized as an increase of income taxes in the Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income.
A deferred income tax liability has not been recognized with regard to the undistributed earnings of certain subsidiaries, which are
considered to be permanently reinvested in their respective businesses. Such earnings would be taxed only upon distribution. The
cumulative amount of the undistributed earnings of such subsidiaries is SAR 29,080 and SAR 32,674 at December 31, 2020 and 2019,
respectively, and the unrecognized deferred income tax liability is SAR 1,969 and SAR 3,215 at December 31, 2020 and 2019,
respectively. Also, a deferred income tax asset has not been recognized with regard to cumulative unused tax losses of certain
subsidiaries with carry-forward periods from 2022 to indefinite. Such losses are available for offsetting against future taxable profits of
the subsidiaries in which the losses arose. The cumulative amount of the unused tax losses is SAR 32,336 and SAR 443 at December 31,
2020 and 2019, respectively, and the unrecognized deferred tax asset is SAR 7,924 and SAR 109 at December 31, 2020 and 2019,
respectively.
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
631 | – | (86) | (2,721) | – | – | – | (2,176)
(524) | 309 | 35 | 2,869 | 7,595 | (24,026) | – | (13,742)
7,395 | – | – | – | – | – | 1,936 | 9,331
– | – | – | (11) | – | – | – | (11)
7,502 | 309 | (51) | 137 | 7,595 | (24,026) | 1,936 | (6,598)
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
4,301 | – | – | 1,650 | 9,983 | (654) | – | 15,280
13,657 | (4,519) | (787) | 17,809 | 11,694 | (91,229) | (246) | (53,621)
17,958 | (4,519) | (787) | 19,459 | 21,677 | (91,883) | (246) | (38,341)
[Page 215]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 213
9. Income taxes and zakat continued
(e) Income tax and zakat assessments
The Company and majority of its subsidiaries and affiliates are subject to tax review and audit in tax jurisdictions where they operate.
In June 2020, the Company and its wholly owned domestic affiliates were notified that the Saudi Arabian income tax submissions for
all years up to and including the year ended December 31, 2019 were accepted as filed.
For the Company’s other domestic and international affiliates, examinations of tax and zakat returns for certain prior years had not
been completed as of December 31, 2020; however, the Company is not aware of any significant claims. Therefore, no material
provision for any additional income tax and zakat liability has been recorded in the consolidated financial statements.
10. Other assets and receivables
2020 2019
Non-current:
Loans to joint ventures and associates (Note 30(b)) 13,252 4,480
Home loans 10,155 5,999
Contractor advances 9,050 6,768
Home ownership construction 2,558 3,160
Receivable from Government, semi-Government and other entities
with Government ownership or control (Note 30(b)) 540 –
Lease receivable from associates (Note 30(b)) 426 440
Other 1,277 525
37,258 21,372
Current:
Employee and other receivables 6,831 4,999
Tax receivables 4,963 2,569
Prepaid expenses 3,355 1,400
Home loans 1,084 848
Investments in securities (Note 11) 826 281
Derivative assets 583 331
Interest receivable 217 1,144
Rig mobilization fees 199 242
Receivables from joint ventures and associates (Note 30(b)) 85 15
Assets held for sale 85 81
Other 541 199
18,769 12,109
Home loans
The home ownership programs provide subsidized non-interest-bearing loans to Saudi Arabian employees. Loans are repayable
through payroll deductions and are net of associated subsidies. Any balance remaining upon the death, permanent disability
or termination of an employee under the Chronic Medical Condition Program is forgiven. An analysis of the home loans balance
is as follows:
2020 2019
Gross amounts receivable1 13,237 9,317
Less:
Discount (1,250) (1,610)
Allowance for doubtful home loans (466) (536)
Subsidies (282) (324)
Net amounts receivable 11,239 6,847
Current (1,084) (848)
Non-current 10,155 5,999
1. Includes home loans of SAR 3,560 acquired as part of the acquisition of SABIC (Note 4).
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|
|
13,252 |
10,155 |
9,050 |
2,558 |
|
540 |
426 |
1,277 |
37,258 |
|
6,831 |
4,963 |
3,355 |
1,084 |
826 |
583 |
217 |
199 |
85 |
85 |
541 |
18,769 |
|
13,237 |
|
(1,250) |
(466) |
(282) |
11,239 |
(1,084) |
10,155 |
[Page 216]
214 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
11. Investments in securities
2020 2019
January 1 20,237 17,772
Acquisitions 2,470 –
Net additions 789 889
Net unrealized fair value gain 128 1,598
Net unrealized foreign currency gain (loss) 63 (22)
December 31 23,687 20,237
Current (Note 10) (826) (281)
Non-current 22,861 19,956
Net additions include unsettled transactions of SAR 190 at December 31, 2020 (2019: SAR 21). Investments in securities are carried at
fair value.
The components of Investments in securities are as follows:
2020
Carrying
Percentage amount as of
ownership December 31
Equity investments at FVOCI:
Equity investments – listed securities:
Saudi Electricity Company (“SEC”) 6.9% 6,146
Idemitsu Kosan Co., Ltd. (“Idemitsu”) 7.8% 1,905
Equity investments – unlisted securities:
Arab Petroleum Pipeline Company (“Sumed”) 15.0% 870
Industrialization & Energy Services Company (“TAQA”) 4.6% 195
Daehan Oil Pipeline Corporation (“Daehan”) 8.9% 154
Other 430
Investments in debt securities at FVOCI:
USD debt securities with fixed interest rates ranging from 0.1% to 13.9% and
maturity dates between January 2021 and May 2069 6,239
USD debt securities with variable interest rates and maturity dates between May 2021 and May 2069 730
16,669
Equity and debt investments at FVPL:
Listed securities – mutual and hedge funds 1,614
Listed securities – equities 870
Listed securities – debt 53
Unlisted securities 3,100
5,637
Investments in debt securities at amortized cost:
Debt securities with fixed interest rates ranging from 2.5% to 5.1% and maturity dates
between 2021 and 2043 747
Debt securities with variable interest rates and maturity dates between 2021 and 2028 634
1,381
23,687
Current portion (Note 10) (826)
Non-current 22,861
[TABLE DATA]
|
20,237 |
2,470 |
789 |
128 |
63 |
23,687 |
(826) |
22,861 |
|
|
6.9% | 6,146
7.8% | 1,905
|
|
15.0% | 870
4.6% | 195
8.9% | 154
| 430
|
|
| 6,239
| 730
| 16,669
|
| 1,614
| 870
| 53
| 3,100
| 5,637
|
| 747
| 634
| 1,381
|
| 23,687
| (826)
| 22,861
[Page 217]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 215
11. Investments in securities continued
2019
Carrying
Percentage amount as of
ownership December 31
Equity investments at FVOCI:
Equity investments – listed securities:
Saudi Electricity Company (“SEC”) 6.9% 5,835
Idemitsu Kosan Co., Ltd. (“Idemitsu”) 7.7% 2,411
Equity investments – unlisted securities:
Arab Petroleum Pipeline Company (“Sumed”) 15.0% 817
Industrialization & Energy Services Company (“TAQA”) 4.6% 270
Daehan Oil Pipeline Corporation (“Daehan”) 8.9% 157
Investments in debt securities at FVOCI:
USD debt securities with fixed interest rates ranging from 0.7% to 8.8%
and maturity dates between January 2020 and September 2057 3,840
USD debt securities with variable interest rates and maturity dates between January 2020 and October 2069 724
14,054
Equity investments at FVPL:
Listed securities – mutual and hedge funds 3,450
Unlisted securities 2,733
6,183
20,237
Current portion (Note 10) (281)
Non-current 19,956
Equity investments designated at FVOCI are not held for trading. Instead, they are held for medium to long-term strategic purposes.
Accordingly, management has elected to designate these equity investments at FVOCI as recognizing short-term fluctuations in these
investments’ fair value in net income would not be consistent with Saudi Aramco’s strategy of holding these investments for long-term
purposes and realizing their performance potential in the long run.
The fair value of Sumed is based on expected cash flows discounted using a rate based on market interest rates and a risk premium
specific to the unlisted security which was 7.7% and 8.0% at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The fair value of TAQA is
based on an earnings growth factor for unlisted equity securities from market information for similar types of companies. The fair
value of Daehan is determined using discounted cash flow analysis based on the risk-adjusted yield.
On April 1, 2019, Saudi Aramco received 23.1 million common shares of Idemitsu in exchange for its shareholding of 56.4 million
common shares of Showa Shell Sekiyu, K.K. (“Showa Shell”). As a result of this transaction, Saudi Aramco’s interest in Idemitsu is 7.8%
of Idemitsu’s total common shares, which does not meet the requirement for significant influence. The investment in Idemitsu in the
amount of SAR 1,905 at December 31, 2020 (2019: SAR 2,411) is accounted for at fair value through other comprehensive income.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date of the investments in debt securities is the fair value. To limit credit risk,
Saudi Aramco’s investment policy requires that these securities be diversified. Credit ratings for debt securities held at December 31,
2020 range from AAA to BB (2019: AAA to BB) as set out by internationally recognized credit rating agencies.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 218]
216 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
12. Inventories
2020 2019
Crude oil, refined products and chemicals 36,964 35,839
Materials and supplies – net 14,731 6,595
Natural gas liquids and other 304 173
51,999 42,607
The carrying amount of materials and supplies are shown net of an allowance for obsolete and surplus materials with movement as
follows:
2020 2019
Balance, January 1 1,997 2,088
Net movement in allowance 998 (91)
Balance, December 31 2,995 1,997
During 2020, a portion of the inventory purchased from third parties by certain subsidiaries was written-down to its net realizable
value.
13. Trade receivables
Trade receivables from export and local sales are denominated primarily in USD and SAR, respectively.
The components of trade receivables are as follows:
2020 2019
Arising from export and local sales at international prices 81,066 86,058
Arising from local sales at Kingdom regulated prices 5,186 8,322
86,252 94,380
Less: Loss allowance (1,069) (854)
85,183 93,526
Trade receivables relating to certain contracts with provisional pricing arrangements are measured at fair value. The fair value was
calculated using forward curves and future prices. These trade receivables are classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy (Note 3(d))
due to the inclusion of unobservable inputs, including counterparty credit risk in the fair value calculation.
As described in Note 2(o), the Government, through the Ministry of Finance, provided a guarantee to the Company in the event that
certain Government, semi-Government and other entities with Government ownership or control are unable to settle within the terms
agreed with the Company.
The movement of the allowance for trade receivables related to past due sales is as follows:
2020 2019
January 1 854 839
Net movement in allowance 215 15
December 31 1,069 854
14. Due from the Government
2020 2019
Other income related to sales (Note 2(z)) 24,604 28,670
Government guarantee (Note 2(o)) 3,605 7,189
Other 686 922
Note 30(b) 28,895 36,781
[TABLE DATA]
|
36,964 |
14,731 |
304 |
51,999 |
|
1,997 |
998 |
2,995 |
|
81,066 |
5,186 |
86,252 |
(1,069) |
85,183 |
|
854 |
215 |
1,069 |
|
24,604 |
3,605 |
686 |
28,895 |
[Page 219]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 217
15. Short-term investments
2020 2019
USD time deposits 90 42,585
USD Murabaha time deposits (Shari’a compliant) 615 1,875
SAR time deposits 91 132
SAR Murabaha time deposits (Shari’a compliant) 4,792 –
South Korean Won time deposits 1,213 875
6,801 45,467
16. Cash and cash equivalents
2020 2019
Cash at bank and in hand 65,689 45,063
USD time deposits 112,115 119,031
USD Murabaha time deposits (Shari’a compliant) 14,816 2,570
SAR time deposits 5,096 4,959
SAR repurchase agreements 1,260 2,800
SAR Murabaha time deposits (Shari’a compliant) 5,726 2,369
South Korean Won time deposits 2,530 914
207,232 177,706
17. Treasury shares
On December 11, 2019, the Company acquired 117.2 million ordinary shares from the Government for cash consideration of SAR 3,750.
These shares are held by the Company as treasury shares for the purposes of issuing them to the Company’s employees upon vesting
of the shares in employee share plans, including those that the Company may adopt in the future. The number of treasury shares
issued to employees during the year was 15 million (2019: nil) in relation to the Celebratory Grant awarded in 2019 (Note 18).
18. Share-based compensation
Share-based compensation relates to grants of ordinary shares awarded to the Company’s eligible employees under the respective
plan terms. Awards are generally equity-settled; however, in limited circumstances awards may be settled in cash. The Company
recognized the following share-based compensation expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income, as an employee benefit
expense, for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019:
Equity-settled Cash-settled Total
2020
Share-based compensation expense 578 9 587
2019
Share-based compensation expense 32 1 33
At December 31, 2020, the total carrying amount of the liabilities in respect of the cash settlement elements and dividend equivalents
of the respective awards was SAR 4 (2019: SAR 2) and the intrinsic value of such liabilities, which had vested during the year, was
SAR 22.
Awards granted during the year relate to the Long-Term Incentive Plan for Executives (“ELTIP”) and the Long-Term Incentive Plan for
Management (“MLTIP”).
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|
90 |
615 |
91 |
4,792 |
1,213 |
6,801 |
|
65,689 |
112,115 |
14,816 |
5,096 |
1,260 |
5,726 |
2,530 |
207,232 |
|  |
578 | 9 | 587
[Page 220]
218 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
18. Share-based compensation continued
Awards for all plans were granted for nil consideration. The fair value of grants was determined by reference to the market value of
the Company’s ordinary shares on the date of grant for equity-settled awards and at the balance sheet date for cash-settled awards.
Where applicable, the fair value of the awards subject to market-based performance measure was estimated using a Monte Carlo
Simulation model.
Number of Weighted
shares average fair
granted value per
(in millions) share (SAR)
2020
ELTIP 2 33.77
MLTIP 3 33.35
2019
Celebratory Grant 16 35.20
The number of awards settled in shares during the year was 15 million (2019: nil) in relation to the Celebratory Grant awarded in 2019.
Participants in the plans are entitled to dividend equivalents, if dividends are paid to ordinary shareholders, during the vesting period.
Such dividend equivalents will be paid in cash on vesting of the awards. Accordingly, no adjustment for expected dividends during the
vesting period was made in determining the fair value of the awards.
The vesting of ELTIP is dependent on the achievement of (a) specified non-market and market-based performance measures over
a three-year performance period, and (b) required service, except for certain qualifying leavers. Upon vesting, 50% of the vested
awards are required to be held by the participants for an additional two years, except for certain qualifying leavers. The awards will
be settled with the participants in shares on vesting.
The vesting of MLTIP is dependent on the participants achieving (a) specified individual performance targets over a one-year
performance period, and (b) required service, except for certain qualifying leavers. The awards are subject to graded vesting. 25%
of the awards will vest after the end of the performance period, and the remaining 75% of the awards will vest in equal installments
over three years from thereon, provided that the participants continue to meet the required service condition. The awards will be
settled with the participants in shares on vesting, except for certain qualifying participants who will receive cash-settlement.
19. Other reserves
Share of other
comprehensive income (loss)
of joint ventures and
associates
Post- Foreign
Currency Investments employment Share-based Cash flow currency Cash flow
translation in securities at benefit compensation hedges and translation hedges
differences FVOCI obligations reserve other gains (losses) and other Total
January 1, 2019 129 2,919 – – (74) 198 4 3,176
Current period change (1,027) 1,517 – 31 (353) (7) (480) (319)
Remeasurement (loss) gain – (539) 3,154 – – – 2 2,617
Transfer to retained earnings – – (2,178) – – – (2) (2,180)
Tax effect – (552) (990) – – – – (1,542)
Less: amounts related
to non-controlling interests 313 (3) 14 – – – – 324
December 31, 2019 (585) 3,342 – 31 (427) 191 (476) 2,076
Current period change 2,768 156 – 556 (300) 1,116 (566) 3,730
Remeasurement loss – – (16,361) – – – – (16,361)
Transfer to retained earnings – – 7,722 (530) – – – 7,192
Tax effect – 1,936 7,395 – – – – 9,331
Less: amounts related
to non-controlling interests (991) (78) 1,244 – – (285) – (110)
December 31, 2020 1,192 5,356 – 57 (727) 1,022 (1,042) 5,858
[TABLE DATA]
|
2 | 33.77
3 | 33.35
2,768 | 156 | – | 556 | (300) | 1,116 | (566) | 3,730
– | – | (16,361) | – | – | – | – | (16,361)
– | – | 7,722 | (530) | – | – | – | 7,192
– | 1,936 | 7,395 | – | – | – | – | 9,331
(991) | (78) | 1,244 | – | – | (285) | – | (110)
1,192 | 5,356 | – | 57 | (727) | 1,022 | (1,042) | 5,858
[Page 221]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 219
20. Non-controlling interests
Summarized consolidated financial information (100%) for each subsidiary that has non-controlling interests that are material to Saudi
Aramco are set out below. The amounts disclosed for each subsidiary are before inter-company eliminations:
Summarized Balance Sheet
At December 31
2020 2019
S-Oil S-Oil
SABIC Corporation Corporation
Current assets 81,032 17,244 18,204
Non-current assets 278,939 41,372 39,841
Total assets 359,971 58,616 58,045
Current liabilities 37,709 22,696 18,617
Non-current liabilities 67,891 12,880 14,718
Total liabilities 105,600 35,576 33,335
Net assets 254,371 23,040 24,710
Accumulated non-controlling interest 99,603 8,842 9,484
Summarized Statement of Comprehensive Income
Year ended December 31
2020 2019
S-Oil S-Oil
SABIC1 Corporation Corporation
Revenue 66,678 53,482 78,478
Net loss (2,426) (2,940) (491)
Other comprehensive (loss) income (197) 1,336 (809)
Total comprehensive loss (2,623) (1,604) (1,300)
Net loss attributable to non-controlling interests (150) (1,128) (188)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (704) (14) (36)
1. Amounts included are for the period from the date of acquisition of SABIC.
Summarized Statement of Cash Flows
Year ended December 31
2020 2019
S-Oil S-Oil
SABIC1 Corporation Corporation
Cash flows from operating activities 12,079 5,852 3,071
Cash flows from investing activities (2,827) (1,974) (3,414)
Cash flows from financing activities (3,611) (2,279) (953)
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 5,641 1,599 (1,296)
1. Amounts included are for the period from the date of acquisition of SABIC.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|  |
|  |
|  |
81,032 | 17,244 |
278,939 | 41,372 |
359,971 | 58,616 |
|  |
37,709 | 22,696 |
67,891 | 12,880 |
105,600 | 35,576 |
|  |
254,371 | 23,040 |
|  |
99,603 | 8,842 |
|  |
|  |
|  |
66,678 | 53,482 |
|  |
(2,426) | (2,940) |
|  |
(197) | 1,336 |
|  |
(2,623) | (1,604) |
|  |
(150) | (1,128) |
|  |
(704) | (14) |
|  |
|  |
|  |
12,079 | 5,852 |
|  |
(2,827) | (1,974) |
|  |
(3,611) | (2,279) |
|  |
5,641 | 1,599 |
[Page 222]
220 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
21. Borrowings
2020 2019
Non-current:
Deferred consideration (Note 4) 217,231 –
Borrowings 55,954 39,957
Debentures 104,425 60,957
Sukuk 12,420 12,649
Lease liabilities 43,567 33,831
Other1 3,323 3,296
436,920 150,690
Current:
Deferred consideration (Note 4) 18,636 –
Short-term bank financing 60,085 12,660
Borrowings 10,197 4,957
Sukuk 231 175
Lease liabilities 10,008 7,103
99,157 24,895
2020 2019
Finance costs:
Conventional borrowings 7,391 3,144
Lease liabilities 2,089 1,790
Shari’a compliant financial instruments 645 652
Unwinding of discount (Note 23) 439 440
10,564 6,026
1. Other borrowings comprise loans from non-financial institutions under commercial terms.
Borrowing facilities
Saudi Aramco has entered into long-term financing arrangements with various lenders. These financing arrangements limit the
creation of additional liens and/or financing obligations and certain of these arrangements are secured over certain property,
plant and equipment of Saudi Aramco with a carrying value of SAR 10,015 (2019: SAR 38,074). Additionally, certain financing
arrangements require compliance by Saudi Aramco with covenants to maintain certain financial and other conditions. Saudi Aramco
has complied with these covenants throughout the reporting period.
[TABLE DATA]
|
|
217,231 |
55,954 |
104,425 |
12,420 |
43,567 |
3,323 |
436,920 |
|
18,636 |
60,085 |
10,197 |
231 |
10,008 |
99,157 |
|
|
7,391 |
2,089 |
645 |
439 |
10,564 |
[Page 223]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 221
21. Borrowings continued
Details of financing facilities at December 31 are as follows:
Total facility Total undrawn
Note 2020 2019 2020 2019
Conventional facilities:
Deferred consideration (Note 4) 259,125 – – –
Revolving credit facilities a 50,460 49,350 43,628 46,489
Commercial and other b 41,561 41,576 881 4,249
Short-term borrowings c 74,213 25,500 24,203 15,698
Export credit agencies d 7,691 6,354 – –
Public Investment Fund e 5,591 4,594 – –
Debentures f 106,313 62,903 – –
Shari'a compliant facilities:
Sukuk a 39,844 39,844 26,250 26,250
Murabaha b 18,814 3,750 – –
Saudi Industrial Development Fund c 5,036 3,248 – –
Ijarah/Procurement d 3,934 1,811 – –
Wakala e 1,721 345 – –
614,303 239,275 94,962 92,686
Conventional facilities
(a) Revolving credit facilities
At December 31, 2020, Saudi Aramco held facilities that total SAR 50,460 (2019: SAR 49,350) consisting of:
(i) O n June 9, 2020, the Company amended and restated certain agreements with respect to its USD denominated conventional
five-year revolving credit facility equivalent to SAR 22,500 ($6,000) to incorporate a SAR 7,500 ($2,000) swing line sublimit-facility
in support of the Company’s establishment of a U.S. commercial paper program. The swing line makes up part of the revolving
credit facility and has not been utilized as of December 31, 2020. In addition, the Company maintains a 365-day USD denominated
facility equivalent to SAR 3,750 ($1,000) along with SAR denominated Islamic Murabaha facilities comprising a five-year facility
of SAR 7,500 and a 364-day facility of SAR 3,750. The facilities were established in March 2015 will mature in March 2022. The
credit facility documentation provides for certain limits on the creation of liens on or other security interests in the assets of the
Company, and on the sale, lease or transfer, of its assets to third parties.
(ii) S audi Aramco maintain facilities of SAR 12,960 (2019: SAR 11,850), consisting of revolving credit facilities of SAR 12,802 ($3,414),
and a letter of credit facility of SAR 158 ($42) for working capital requirements and to support trading activities. The facilities are
expected to be renewed in 2021 and 2022. The remaining revolving credit facilities are executed with a group of foreign and
domestic banks for general corporate purposes and working capital requirements.
(b) Commercial and other
(i) S audi Aramco has commercial and other facility agreements with a number of banks. The facilities are primarily repayable in
12 to 36 installments on a semi-annual basis from November 18, 2008 to November 30, 2039. Commission is payable on amounts
drawn that are primarily calculated at a market rate plus a margin.
(ii) I n 2020, Saudi Aramco refinanced an existing commercial facility having a balance of SAR 345 ($92). Under the refinancing
agreement, the facility of SAR 375 ($100) is repayable semi-annually in 34 installments, starting March 2020 to November 2036.
Commission is payable on amounts drawn at a market rate, starting March 2020.
(iii) O n December 18, 2019, Saudi Aramco refinanced certain short-term bank financing through long-term project financing with
21 commercial banks and six export credit agencies. These long-term facilities were established in the amount of SAR 17,438 and
payable in 27 installments on a semi-annual basis commencing on December 2021 to December 2034. Commission is payable on
amounts drawn and calculated at market rate plus a margin.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
| –
49,350
41,576
25,500
6,354
4,594
62,903
39,844
3,750
3,248
1,811
345 |  |
259,125 |  |  | –
50,460 |  |  | 43,628
41,561 |  |  | 881
74,213 |  |  | 24,203
7,691 |  |  | –
5,591 |  |  | –
106,313 |  |  | –
|  |  |
|  |  |
39,844 |  |  | 26,250
18,814 |  |  | –
5,036 |  |  | –
3,934 |  |  | –
1,721 |  |  | –
614,303 | 239,275 |  | 94,962
[Page 224]
222 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
21. Borrowings continued
(c) Short-term borrowings
(i) O n May 7, 2020, the Company entered into a SAR 37,500 ($10,000) one-year term loan facility with various financial institutions
for general corporate purposes. The one-year term loan facility currently terminates on May 6, 2021 but the Company has the
option to extend the facility date by up to 364 days from May 6, 2021. As of December 31, 2020, the facility was fully utilized with
the outstanding loan balance of SAR 37,500 ($10,000). The facility bears interest at LIBOR plus a margin commencing May 7, 2020.
(ii) I n 2020, Saudi Aramco entered into debt factoring arrangements in relation to certain intercompany receivables, repayable over
a four-month period and on market terms. A total of SAR 3,285 was outstanding at December 31, 2020 (2019: nil).
(iii) S audi Aramco has facilities with a number of banks for short-term borrowing, with each borrowing less than one year and which
incur interest at market rates plus a margin.
(d) Export credit agencies
Saudi Aramco has facility agreements with a number of export credit agencies. The facilities are repayable in 23 to 28 installments on
a semi-annual basis from November 18, 2008 to December 20, 2025. Commission is payable on amounts drawn and is calculated at a
market rate plus a margin.
(e) Public Investment Fund
Saudi Aramco has facility agreements with the Saudi Public Investment Fund. The facilities are repayable in 14 to 28 installments on
a semi-annual basis from November 18, 2008 to December 20, 2025. Commission is payable on amounts drawn and is calculated at
a market rate plus a margin.
(f) Debentures
(i) O n April 16, 2019, the Company issued five tranches of USD denominated unsecured notes aggregating equivalent to SAR 45,000
($12,000) and consisting of three-year maturities for SAR 3,750 ($1,000) with a coupon rate of 2.75%, five-year maturities for SAR
7,500 ($2,000) with a coupon rate of 2.875%, 10-year maturities for SAR 11,250 ($3,000) with a coupon rate of 3.5%, 20-year
maturities for SAR 11,250 ($3,000) with a coupon rate of 4.25%, and 30-year maturities for SAR 11,250 ($3,000) with a coupon rate
of 4.375%. The notes were issued and sold in accordance with Rule 144A/Regulation S under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933,
as amended. Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on April 16 and October 16. The notes are listed on the London Stock
Exchange’s Regulated Market and the proceeds were for general corporate purposes. At initial recognition, the Company recorded
an amount of SAR 44,460 ($11,856) for the issuance proceeds, net of discounts and estimated transaction costs.
On November 24, 2020, the Company issued a series of USD Senior Unsecured Notes under the same program, aggregating
SAR 30,000 ($8,000) consisting of maturity dates of three years to 50 years paid at the end of the maturity date with coupon rate
ranging from 1.25% to 3.50%. At initial recognition, the Company recorded an amount of SAR 29,625 ($7,900) for the issuance
proceeds, net of discounts. Discounts and transaction costs are amortized using the effective interest method and are reflected as
finance costs in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
(ii) C ertain debentures denominated in USD are issued in capital markets. Interest rates are fixed and variable with maturities that
range between 2027 and 2040.
(iii) D ebentures denominated in Korean Won are issued in capital markets. Interest rates range from 1.65% to 3.53% with maturities
beginning in 2021 through 2030.
(iv) I n November 2020, SABIC issued a 10-year and 30-year USD denominated $500 bond each, equivalent to a total of SAR 3,750
($1,000). These bonds are unsecured and carry coupon rates of 2.15% and 3.00% for those maturing in 10 and 30 years,
respectively. Both bonds are issued in accordance with Regulation S offering requirements under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933,
as amended. These bonds are listed on the Irish Stock Exchange (Euronext Dublin) and the 30-year bond is dual listed in Taipei
Exchange in Taiwan. The proceeds were used for general propose and refinancing maturing debt.
(v) I n October 2018, SABIC issued a five-year and a 10-year USD denominated $1,000 bond equivalent to a total of SAR 7,500 ($2,000).
These bonds are unsecured and carry coupon rates of 4% and 4.5%, respectively. The bonds are issued in accordance with the
Rule 144A/Reg S offering requirements under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The bonds are listed on the Irish Stock
Exchange (Euronext Dublin) and the proceeds were used for refinancing maturing debt.
[Page 225]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 223
21. Borrowings continued
Shari'a compliant facilities
(a) Sukuk
A Sukuk is a financial instrument similar to a bond that complies with Islamic financing principles.
(i) O n April 10, 2017, Saudi Aramco issued a Sukuk for SAR 11,250 at par value as part of a SAR 37,500 program. The Sukuk issuance
provides a return based on Saudi Arabian Interbank Offered Rate (“SAIBOR”) plus a pre-determined margin payable semi-annually
on April 10 and October 10. The Sukuk matures on April 10, 2024. In accordance with the terms of the Sukuk, 51% of the proceeds
from issuance are invested in Mudaraba assets and the remaining 49% are used in a Murabaha arrangement.
(ii) O n October 9, 2011, Saudi Aramco issued a Sukuk for SAR 2,344 at par value with semi-annual payments from December 20, 2014
to December 20, 2025 that provides a rate of return above SAIBOR. The Sukuk was structured as Istisnah for pre-construction and
Ijarah for post-construction of the project.
(b) Murabaha
Saudi Aramco has a Murabaha Shari’a compliant Islamic facilities. The facilities are repayable in 10 to 44 installments on a semi-annual
basis payments between 2008 and 2030. Commission is payable on amounts drawn and is calculated at a market rate plus a margin.
(c) Saudi Industrial Development Fund
Saudi Aramco has facility agreements with the Saudi Industrial Development Fund. The facilities bear no periodic financial charges
and borrowings are repayable in 14 to 34 installments on a semi-annual basis, commencing from 2008 to 2030.
(d) Ijarah/Procurement
Saudi Aramco had Procurement and Ijarah Shari’a compliant Islamic facility agreements with a number of banks. The facilities were
repayable in seven to 28 installments on a semi-annual basis, commencing November 18, 2008 to June 20, 2029. In 2019, Saudi
Aramco refinanced the balance of the procurement facility with an Ijarah Shari’a compliant facility to be repayable on a semi-annual
basis starting June 20, 2026. Commission is payable on amounts drawn that are primarily calculated at a market rate plus a margin.
(e) Wakala
Saudi Aramco has Shari’a compliant Islamic facility agreements with three lenders. The facilities utilize a Wakala financing structure
which is an agency arrangement.
In 2020, Saudi Aramco entered into a new Wakala facility with semi-annual payment terms commencing from 2020 to 2036.
Commission is payable on amounts drawn that are primarily calculated at a market rate.
In 2019, Saudi Aramco refinanced the Wakala Shari’a compliant Islamic facilities. The facilities were repayable in 23 unequal
installments on a semi-annual basis commencing December 20, 2014 to December 20, 2025. In 2019, Saudi Aramco refinanced the
balance of the facility to be repayable in seven unequal installments on a semi-annual basis starting June 20, 2026 to June 20, 2029.
Commission is payable on amounts drawn that are primarily calculated at a market rate plus a margin starting June 20, 2020.
At the Consolidated Balance Sheet date, the carrying values of Saudi Aramco’s borrowings approximate their fair values.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
| 0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 226]
224 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
21. Borrowings continued
The carrying amounts of borrowings, excluding lease liabilities and deferred consideration, at December 31 are as follows:
2020 2019
Conventional facilities:
Revolving credit facilities 6,830 2,861
Commercial and other 34,478 32,564
Short-term borrowings 53,255 9,799
Export credit agencies 4,560 3,743
Public Investment Fund (Note 30(b)) 3,656 2,880
Debentures 104,425 60,957
Other 3,323 3,296
Shari'a compliant facilities:
Sukuk 12,651 12,824
Murabaha 15,379 1,085
Saudi Industrial Development Fund (Note 30(b)) 3,855 2,486
Ijarah/Procurement 3,360 1,811
Wakala 863 345
246,635 134,651
Movements in unamortized transaction costs are as follows:
2020 2019
January 1 968 461
Additional transaction costs incurred 1,170 769
Less: amortization (353) (262)
December 31 1,785 968
Lease liabilities
Covenants of certain long-term financing facilities require Saudi Aramco to maintain defined financial and other conditions. Lease
liabilities are effectively secured as the rights to the leased asset revert to the lessor in the event of default. The lessor has ownership
of the assets during the term of the contract and is responsible for the operation, insurance and maintenance of the assets until
termination of the underlying agreements. For certain leases, the lessor shall transfer its rights, title and interest in the assets to the
lessee on the last day of the agreements; for others, there are no further obligations on completion of agreements. Performance
guarantees are provided by the lessor under the terms of the agreements.
The total cash outflow for leases for the year ended December 31, 2020 was SAR 10,868 (2019: SAR 7,740). Expenses relating to
short-term and low value leases were recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 2020
and amounted to SAR 378 (2019: SAR 2,558) and SAR 278 (2019: SAR 540), respectively.
Maturities of borrowings and leases are as follows:
Later than
one year and Total Total
No later than no later than Later than contractual carrying
one year five years five years amount amount
2020
Borrowings 101,505 244,553 242,929 588,987 482,502
Leases 11,228 26,051 23,854 61,133 53,575
112,733 270,604 266,783 650,120 536,077
2019
Borrowings 8,165 51,383 104,202 163,750 134,651
Leases 8,405 21,867 30,067 60,339 40,934
16,570 73,250 134,269 224,089 175,585
[TABLE DATA]
|
|
6,830 |
34,478 |
53,255 |
4,560 |
3,656 |
104,425 |
3,323 |
|
|
12,651 |
15,379 |
3,855 |
3,360 |
863 |
246,635 |
|
968 |
1,170 |
(353) |
1,785 |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
101,505 | 244,553 | 242,929 | 588,987 |  | 482,502
11,228 | 26,051 | 23,854 | 61,133 |  | 53,575
112,733 | 270,604 | 266,783 | 650,120 |  | 536,077
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
[Page 227]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 225
21. Borrowings continued
The movement of borrowings is as follows:
Total
liabilities
from
Long-term Short-term Lease financing
borrowings borrowings liabilities activities
January 1, 2019 65,086 23,174 13,058 101,318
Cash flows 13,998 (11,660) (7,740) (5,402)
Debentures 44,460 – – 44,460
Non-cash changes:
Acquisitions (Note 35) – – 94 94
Lease liabilities on adoption of IFRS 16 – – 26,051 26,051
Lease additions – – 9,670 9,670
Foreign exchange adjustment (454) 27 8 (419)
Accretion of liabilities and others (1,099) 1,119 (207) (187)
December 31, 2019 121,991 12,660 40,934 175,585
Cash flows (37,504) 46,084 (10,868) (2,288)
Debentures 36,815 – – 36,815
Non-cash changes:
Deferred Consideration 259,125 – – 259,125
Acquisition (Note 4) 37,592 1,179 6,552 45,323
Lease additions – – 16,705 16,705
Foreign exchange adjustment 1,023 60 193 1,276
Accretion of liabilities and others 3,375 102 59 3,536
December 31, 2020 422,417 60,085 53,575 536,077
22. Post-employment benefit obligations
Saudi Aramco sponsors or participates in several funded and unfunded defined benefit pension plans and other post-employment
benefit plans that provide pension, severance, death, medical and/or other benefits to substantially all of its employees primarily
in Saudi Arabia. The majority of the defined benefit plans for Saudi Arabia based employees are governed under the Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia labor law, applicable benefit plan laws of the USA, and/or Company policies. Benefits to employees of group companies
are provided based on local regulations and practices of the respective jurisdiction.
Retirement benefits for defined benefit pension plans are paid, primarily, in the form of lump sum payments upon retirement based
on final salary and length of service. Other post-employment benefits such as medical are used to cover retired employees and eligible
dependents of retirees for medical services in line with the plan policy documents.
At December 31, the net liability recognized for employee defined benefit plans in the Consolidated Balance Sheet is as follows:
2020 2019
Pension plans 12,167 (1,600)
Medical and other post-employment benefit plans 42,040 22,774
Net benefit liability 54,207 21,174
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
(37,504) | 46,084 | (10,868)
36,815 | – | –
|  |
259,125 | – | –
37,592 | 1,179 | 6,552
– | – | 16,705
1,023 | 60 | 193
3,375 | 102 | 59
422,417 | 60,085 | 53,575
(2,288)
36,815
259,125
45,323
16,705
1,276
3,536
536,077
|
12,167 |
42,040 |
54,207 |
[Page 228]
226 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
22. Post-employment benefit obligations continued
The status of Saudi Aramco’s pension and other post-employment defined benefit plans is as follows:
Pension benefits Other benefits
2020 2019 2020 2019
Net benefit obligation by funding:
Present value of funded obligations 84,998 59,824 114,289 87,090
Fair value of plan assets (78,328) (67,156) (82,629) (73,136)
Benefit deficit (surplus) 6,670 (7,332) 31,660 13,954
Present value of unfunded obligations 5,497 5,732 10,380 8,820
Net benefit liability (asset) 12,167 (1,600) 42,040 22,774
Change in benefit obligations:
Benefit obligations, January 1 65,556 57,296 95,910 85,047
Current service cost 3,799 3,004 2,576 1,924
Interest cost 2,254 2,453 3,458 3,720
Past service (credit) cost (465) (8) 2,340 –
Remeasurement 8,243 6,481 21,480 6,754
Plan participants’ contribution 75 105 – –
Benefits paid (8,134) (3,563) (1,886) (1,804)
Settlements (386) (274) – –
Acquisitions (Notes 4, 35) 19,651 131 975 94
Foreign currency translation and other (98) (69) (184) 175
Benefit obligations, December 31 90,495 65,556 124,669 95,910
Change in plan assets:
Fair value of plan assets January 1 (67,156) (58,376) (73,136) (60,758)
Interest income (2,018) (2,475) (2,438) (2,696)
Remeasurement (6,214) (6,604) (7,148) (9,785)
Employer contributions (7,406) (3,480) (1,793) (1,699)
Benefits paid 8,134 3,563 1,886 1,804
Settlements 386 274 – –
Acquisitions (Notes 4, 35) (4,077) (56) – –
Foreign currency translation and other 23 (2) – (2)
Fair value of plan assets, December 31 (78,328) (67,156) (82,629) (73,136)
Net benefit liability (asset) at December 31 12,167 (1,600) 42,040 22,774
The weighted average duration of the pension benefit obligations is 13 years at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019.
The weighted average duration of the other benefit obligations is 21 years at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019.
[TABLE DATA]
|
|
|
| 114,289
| (82,629)
| 31,660
| 10,380
| 42,040
|
|
| 95,910
| 2,576
| 3,458
| 2,340
| 21,480
| –
| (1,886)
| –
| 975
| (184)
| 124,669
|
|
| (73,136)
| (2,438)
| (7,148)
| (1,793)
| 1,886
| –
| –
| –
| (82,629)
|
| 42,040
84,998
(78,328)
6,670
5,497
12,167
65,556
3,799
2,254
(465)
8,243
75
(8,134)
(386)
19,651
(98)
90,495
(67,156)
(2,018)
(6,214)
(7,406)
8,134
386
(4,077)
23
(78,328)
12,167
[Page 229]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 227
22. Post-employment benefit obligations continued
The components of net defined benefit cost, before tax, are primarily recognized in producing and manufacturing, and selling,
administrative and general expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Remeasurements are included in the Consolidated
Statement of Comprehensive Income. Net defined benefit cost and remeasurements for the years ended December 31 are as follows:
Pension benefits Other benefits
2020 2019 2020 2019
Amounts recognized in net income:
Current service cost 3,799 3,004 2,576 1,924
Past service (credit) cost (465) (8) 2,340 –
Net interest cost (income) 236 (22) 1,020 1,024
Other (8) 19 (15) 98
3,562 2,993 5,921 3,046
Amounts recognized in other comprehensive income:
Losses from changes in demographic assumptions 729 35 496 154
Losses from changes in financial assumptions 7,728 6,544 13,203 14,633
(Gains) losses from changes in experience adjustments (214) (98) 7,781 (8,033)
Returns on plan assets (excluding interest income) (6,214) (6,604) (7,148) (9,785)
2,029 (123) 14,332 (3,031)
Net defined benefit loss before income taxes 5,591 2,870 20,253 15
The present value of the defined benefit obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a
number of assumptions, based in part on market conditions. Any changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying amount of the
defined benefit obligations.
The significant assumptions used to determine the present value of the defined benefit obligations for the years ended December 31
are as follows:
Pension benefits Other benefits
2020 2019 2020 2019
Discount rate 2.6% 3.2% 3.0% 3.6%
Salary growth rate 4.8% 5.5% – –
Annual average medical claim cost, in whole SAR 26,003 22,110
Health care participation rate 90.0% 90.0%
Assumed health care trend rates:
Cost-trend rate 5.0% 6.0%
Rate to which cost-trend is to decline 5.0% 5.0%
Year that the rate reaches the ultimate rate 2021 2021
All the above assumptions are reviewed and updated as necessary as part of the periodic actuarial valuation of the defined benefit
obligations.
Saudi Aramco determines the discount rate used to calculate the present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be
required to settle the post-employment benefit plan obligations. In determining the appropriate discount rate, Saudi Aramco considers
the interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds in the USA that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related
defined benefit obligation.
Mortality assumptions are reviewed regularly and set based on actuarial advice in accordance with best practice and statistics,
adjusted to reflect the experience and improvements to longevity. Relevant life expectancies are as follows:
Saudi Plans US Plans
Life expectancy at age: Male Female Male Female
50 31.6 34.7 33.8 35.7
60 23.0 25.7 24.7 26.5
60 (currently aged 40) 23.0 25.7 26.4 28.1
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|
|
|
| 2,576
| 2,340
| 1,020
| (15)
| 5,921
|
| 496
| 13,203
| 7,781
| (7,148)
| 14,332
| 20,253
3,799
(465)
236
(8)
3,562
729
7,728
(214)
(6,214)
2,029
5,591
|
|
| 3.0%
| –
| 26,003
| 90.0%
|
| 5.0%
| 5.0%
| 2021
2.6%
4.8%
|
|
| 33.8
| 24.7
| 26.4
31.6
23.0
23.0
[Page 230]
228 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
22. Post-employment benefit obligations continued
The salary growth rate assumption is based on a study of recent years’ salary experience and reflects management’s outlook for
future increases. The annual average medical claim cost assumption is based on medical costs incurred in external medical providers,
on behalf of the Company’s employees and retirees. The health care participation rate considers the historical participation rate,
amongst others, derived from the best available historical data. The assumed health care cost-trend rates reflect Saudi Aramco’s
historical experience and management’s expectations regarding future trends.
The sensitivity of the overall defined benefit obligations to changes in the principal assumptions, keeping all other assumptions
constant, is presented below. The sensitivity analysis may not be representative of an actual change in the defined benefit obligations
as it is unlikely that changes in assumptions would occur in isolation from one another.
Change in Impact on
assumption obligation 2020 2019
Ultimate health care cost-trend rates Increase by 0.5% Increase by 13,485 9,926
Decrease by 0.5% Decrease by (11,726) (8,659)
Discount rate - other benefits Increase by 0.5% Decrease by (12,311) (9,195)
Decrease by 0.5% Increase by 14,359 10,669
Discount rate - pension benefits Increase by 0.5% Decrease by (6,146) (3,889)
Decrease by 0.5% Increase by 6,818 4,331
Salary growth rate Increase by 0.5% Increase by 2,974 1,890
Decrease by 0.5% Decrease by (3,364) (2,201)
Annual average medical claim cost Increase by 5% Increase by 5,903 4,463
Decrease by 5% Decrease by (5,903) (4,463)
Life expectancy Increase by 1 year Increase by 5,880 4,245
Decrease by 1 year Decrease by (5,914) (4,234)
Health care participation rate Increase by 5% Increase by 1,823 1,706
Decrease by 5% Decrease by (1,875) (1,751)
Plan assets consisted of the following:
2020 2019
Cash 5,816 2,670
Time deposits 8 –
Equity instruments 41,710 39,199
Investment funds 61,947 48,845
Bonds 50,516 48,202
Sukuk (Shari’a compliant) 960 1,376
160,957 140,292
Plan assets are administered under the oversight of the Company or one of its subsidiaries and managed by independent trustees
or separate entities, in a manner consistent with fiduciary obligations and principles, acting in the best interest of plan participants.
The objectives of the plans are to maximize investment returns consistent with prudent risk over a long-term investment horizon
in order to secure retiree benefits and minimize corporate funding. All plan assets are held separately, solely to pay retiree benefits.
Saudi Aramco has no rights to plan assets. Funded Saudi Plans have the right to transfer assets held in excess of the plan’s defined
benefit obligation to another funded Saudi plan. The right to transfer such assets is solely in respect of amounts held in excess of the
plan’s defined benefit obligations and solely to Plans with defined benefit obligations exceeding the value of assets held.
Through its post-employment benefit plans, Saudi Aramco is exposed to a number of risks including asset volatility, changes in bond
yields, inflation and life expectancy. Investment risk is minimized through diversification of investments among fixed income, equity,
and alternative asset classes. Asset allocation is determined by an asset liability modeling study. The target asset allocation is,
approximately, 36% (2019: 38%) equity instruments, 31% (2019: 32%) debt instruments, and 33% (2019: 30%) alternative assets.
Inflation risk is partially offset by equities inflation and life expectancy risk is borne by Saudi Aramco.
[TABLE DATA]
|
|
| 13,485
| (11,726)
|
| (12,311)
| 14,359
|
| (6,146)
| 6,818
|
| 2,974
| (3,364)
|
| 5,903
| (5,903)
|
| 5,880
| (5,914)
|
| 1,823
| (1,875)
|
5,816 |
8 |
41,710 |
61,947 |
50,516 |
960 |
160,957 |
[Page 231]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 229
22. Post-employment benefit obligations continued
Plan assets include transferrable securities with a fair value of SAR 1,307 (2019: SAR 806) in the Company and its affiliated entities.
Employer contributions to defined benefit plans are estimated to be SAR 6,583 in 2021. While the Saudi plans are generally not
governed by regulatory minimum funding requirements, the funding objective is to reach full funding of the larger plans only.
Saudi Aramco pays annual contributions equal to the cost of accrual on a Board approved cash funding basis. Asset outperformance
is expected to meet the shortfall between assets and the assessed liabilities within a reasonable period. Funding for the U.S. plans
sponsored by Aramco Shared Benefit Company, (a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company) is recommended by the actuary in
order to meet Saudi Aramco’s funding strategy to meet benefit plan expenses using applicable U.S. plan funding rules. Other plans
follow local regulation or contractual obligations to meet minimum funding requirements.
In addition to the above plans, Saudi Aramco maintains or participates in defined contribution plans for which Saudi Aramco’s legal
or constructive obligation for these plans is limited to the contributions. The costs of the defined contribution plans, which are
included principally within producing and manufacturing, and selling, administrative and general expenses in the Consolidated
Statement of Income, are SAR 1,372 and SAR 1,028 for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively (Note 27).
23. Provisions and other liabilities
Asset
retirement Environmental Other Total
January 1, 2019 13,707 849 1,050 15,606
Revision to estimate (748) 45 (154) (857)
Additional provisions 392 106 467 965
Unwinding of discounting (Note 21) 412 28 – 440
Amounts charged against provisions (47) (91) (31) (169)
December 31, 2019 13,716 937 1,332 15,985
Acquisition – – 5,093 5,093
Revision to estimate 2,485 45 194 2,724
Additional provisions 744 83 544 1,371
Unwinding of discounting (Note 21) 411 23 5 439
Amounts charged against provisions (17) (148) (239) (404)
December 31, 2020 17,339 940 6,929 25,208
These provisions consist primarily of asset retirement provisions for the future plugging and abandonment of oil and natural gas wells
and the decommissioning of certain Downstream assets. The environmental provision is for the remediation of ground water and soil
contamination. Payments to settle these provisions will occur on an ongoing basis and will continue over the lives of the operating
assets, which can exceed 50 years for the time when it is necessary to abandon oil and natural gas wells. The amount and timing of
settlement in respect of these provisions are uncertain and dependent on various factors that are not always within management’s
control. Other includes non-current payables, financial liability against options, provisions and other obligations.
24. Trade and other payables
2020 2019
Trade payables 36,595 38,629
Accrued materials and services 36,726 24,544
Amounts due to related parties (Note 30(b)) 9,540 7,587
Other accruals 10,879 7,471
93,740 78,231
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
| 0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
– | – | 5,093
2,485 | 45 | 194
744 | 83 | 544
411 | 23 | 5
(17) | (148) | (239)
17,339 | 940 | 6,929
5,093
2,724
1,371
439
(404)
25,208
|
36,595 |
36,726 |
9,540 |
10,879 |
93,740 |
[Page 232]
230 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
25. Revenue
2020 2019
Revenue from contracts with customers 771,246 1,096,444
Movement between provisional and final prices (7,344) 5,650
Other revenue 4,207 3,602
768,109 1,105,696
Other revenue:
Services provided to:
Government, semi-Government and other entities
with Government ownership or control (Note 30(a)) 953 1,058
Third parties 675 510
Joint ventures and associates (Note 30(a)) 825 266
Freight 431 161
Other 1,323 1,607
4,207 3,602
Revenue from contracts with customers is measured at a transaction price agreed under the contract and the payment is due within
10 to 120 days from the invoice date depending on specific terms of the contract.
Transaction prices are not adjusted for the time value of money, as Saudi Aramco does not have any contracts where the period
between the transfer of product to the customer and payment by the customer exceeds one year.
Disaggregation of revenue from contracts with customers
Saudi Aramco’s revenue from contracts with customers according to product type and source is as follows:
2020
Upstream Downstream Corporate Total
Crude oil 377,094 31,400 – 408,494
Refined and chemical products – 314,066 – 314,066
Natural gas and NGLs 40,684 2,287 – 42,971
Metal products – 5,715 – 5,715
Revenue from contracts with customers 417,778 353,468 – 771,246
Movement between provisional and final prices (7,286) (58) – (7,344)
Other revenue 464 2,377 1,366 4,207
External revenue 410,956 355,787 1,366 768,109
2019
Upstream Downstream Corporate Total
Crude oil 645,499 22,049 – 667,548
Refined and chemical products – 369,478 – 369,478
Natural gas and NGLs 57,649 1,769 – 59,418
Revenue from contracts with customers 703,148 393,296 – 1,096,444
Movement between provisional and final prices 5,405 245 – 5,650
Other revenue 697 1,558 1,347 3,602
External revenue 709,250 395,099 1,347 1,105,696
Revenue from contracts with customers includes local sales at Kingdom regulated prices as follows:
2020 2019
Crude oil 2,749 2,745
Refined and chemical products 44,620 56,777
Natural gas and NGLs 11,810 15,341
59,179 74,863
[TABLE DATA]
|
771,246 |
(7,344) |
4,207 |
768,109 |
|
|
953 |
675 |
825 |
431 |
1,323 |
4,207 |
377,094 | 31,400 | – | 408,494
– | 314,066 | – | 314,066
40,684 | 2,287 | – | 42,971
– | 5,715 | – | 5,715
417,778 | 353,468 | – | 771,246
|  |  |
(7,286) | (58) | – | (7,344)
464 | 2,377 | 1,366 | 4,207
410,956 | 355,787 | 1,366 | 768,109
|
2,749 |
44,620 |
11,810 |
59,179 |
[Page 233]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 231
26. Purchases
2020 2019
Refined and chemical products 122,011 151,115
Crude oil 47,911 67,732
NGL and other products 11,194 6,323
181,116 225,170
Purchases primarily consist of refined products, chemicals, crude oil and NGL purchased from third parties for use in Downstream
operations and to meet demand for products in the Kingdom when it exceeds Saudi Aramco’s production of the relevant product.
Saudi Aramco also purchases products from third parties in certain markets where it is more cost effective compared to procuring
them from other business units.
27. Employee benefit expense
2020 2019
Salaries and wages 37,396 32,528
Social security costs 2,426 1,967
Post-retirement benefits (Note 22):
Defined benefit plans 9,483 6,039
Defined contribution plans 1,372 1,028
Share-based compensation (Note 18) 587 33
51,264 41,595
28. Finance and other income
2020 2019
Interest income on time deposits and loans receivable 1,817 5,359
Investment income 954 175
Gain on remeasurement of existing interest in equity investments (Note 35) – 1,278
Dividend income from investments in securities 382 509
Gain on derivative transactions and others 29 30
3,182 7,351
29. Payments to the Government by Saudi Arabian Oil Company
2020 2019
Income taxes (Note 9(c)) 72,582 149,780
Royalties 82,958 170,256
Dividends 257,246 274,388
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|
122,011 |
47,911 |
11,194 |
181,116 |
|
37,396 |
2,426 |
|
9,483 |
1,372 |
587 |
51,264 |
|
1,817 |
954 |
– |
382 |
29 |
3,182 |
|
72,582 |
82,958 |
257,246 |
[Page 234]
232 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
30. Related party transactions
(a) Transactions
2020 2019
Joint ventures:
Revenue from sales 14,393 7,485
Other revenue (Note 25) 72 83
Interest income 98 30
Purchases 8,719 544
Service expenses 11 19
Associates:
Revenue from sales 32,580 36,866
Other revenue (Note 25) 753 183
Interest income 120 165
Purchases 28,451 36,960
Service expenses 199 188
Government, semi-Government and other entities with Government ownership or control:
Revenue from sales 24,866 45,079
Other income related to sales 93,982 131,089
Other revenue (Note 25) 953 1,058
Purchases 10,384 11,606
Service expenses 454 409
Acquisition of treasury shares (Note 17) – 3,750
Sale of partial interest in joint venture – 14
Goods are purchased and sold according to supply agreements in force. Note 34 includes additional information on loans to joint
ventures and associates.
(b) Balances
2020 2019
Joint ventures:
Other assets and receivables (Note 10) 6,368 1,609
Trade receivables 3,210 836
Interest receivable 128 30
Trade and other payables (Note 24) 3,986 15
Associates:
Other assets and receivables (Note 10) 7,395 3,326
Trade receivables 8,415 8,715
Trade and other payables (Note 24) 3,784 4,553
Government, semi-Government and other entities with Government ownership or control:
Other assets and receivables (Note 10) 540 –
Trade receivables 1,429 5,985
Due from the Government (Note 14) 28,895 36,781
Trade and other payables (Note 24) 1,770 3,019
Borrowings (Note 21) 243,378 5,366
Sales to and receivables from Government, semi-Government and other entities with Government ownership or control are made on
specific terms within the relevant regulatory framework in the Kingdom.
[TABLE DATA]
|
|
14,393 |
72 |
98 |
8,719 |
11 |
|
|
32,580 |
753 |
120 |
28,451 |
199 |
|
|
24,866 |
93,982 |
953 |
10,384 |
454 |
– |
– |
|
|
6,368 |
3,210 |
128 |
3,986 |
|
|
7,395 |
8,415 |
3,784 |
|
|
540 |
1,429 |
28,895 |
1,770 |
243,378 |
[Page 235]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 233
30. Related party transactions continued
(c) Compensation of key management personnel
Key management personnel of Saudi Aramco included directors and senior executive management. The compensation paid or
payable to key management for services is shown below:
2020 2019
Short-term employee benefits 59 63
Post-employment benefits 29 31
Other long-term benefits 23 7
Termination benefits 17 –
128 101
(d) Other transactions with key management personnel
Other than as set out in Note 30(c), there were no reportable transactions between Saudi Aramco and members of key management
personnel and their close family members during the year ended December 31, 2020 (2019: nil).
31. Derivative instruments and hedging activities
Saudi Aramco uses interest rate swap contracts to manage exposure to interest rate risk resulting from borrowings. These hedges
are designated as cash flow hedges. Saudi Aramco also engages in hedging activities through the use of currency forward contracts
in relation to firm commitments under procurement contracts and transactions for foreign currency payrolls. These hedges are
designated as fair value hedges. Further, Saudi Aramco uses short-term commodity swap contracts to manage exposure to price
fluctuations.
The notional amounts of currency forward contracts and interest rate swap contracts designated as hedging instruments and
outstanding commodity swap contracts are as follows:
2020 2019
Interest rate swaps 12,075 12,911
Commodity swap contracts 19,894 17,370
Currency forward contracts 9,780 8,452
41,749 38,733
32. Non-cash investing and financing activities
Investing and financing activities during 2020 include the acquisition of SABIC for deferred consideration of SAR 259,125 (Note 4),
additions to right-of-use assets of SAR 16,278 (2019: SAR 9,670), subordinated shareholder loans and trade receivables with a joint
venture that were converted to equity of nil and nil (2019: SAR 1,706 and SAR 1,098), respectively, asset retirement provisions of
SAR 2,786 (2019: SAR 50) and equity awards issued to employees for no consideration (Note 18) (2019: nil).
33. Commitments
(a) Capital commitments
Capital expenditures contracted for but not yet incurred were SAR 153,326 and SAR 154,181 at December 31, 2020 and 2019,
respectively. In addition, leases contracted for but not yet commenced were SAR 7,990 and SAR 7,467 at December 31, 2020 and 2019,
respectively.
(b) Sadara
In March 2020, Saudi Aramco and Dow Chemical Company equally committed to comply with the Ministry of Energy feedstock
agreement to support the development of Chemical Value Parks in the Kingdom with an amount of SAR 375. The first payment
of SAR 38 will be deposited within one month from the date of supplying Sadara with additional ethane. The remaining funds will
be deposited over nine years at SAR 38 annually. Saudi Aramco’s commitment of SAR 188 is outstanding at December 31, 2020.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|
59 |
29 |
23 |
17 |
128 |
|
12,075 |
19,894 |
9,780 |
41,749 |
[Page 236]
234 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
33. Commitments continued
(c) IMIC
In 2017, Saudi Aramco Development Company (“SADCO”), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and Lamprell plc (“Lamprell”),
Bahri and Korea Shipbuilding Offshore Engineering (“KSOE”), formerly known as Hyundai Heavy Industries, formed a company,
IMIC, in which SADCO owns 50.1%, Lamprell owns 20%, Bahri owns 19.9% and KSOE owns 10%. The principal activities of IMIC
are the development, operation, and maintenance of a maritime yard under construction by the Government, as well as, the design,
manufacture, maintenance and repair of ships and rigs. The maritime yard will be divided into four main zones and completion
of the construction of the individual zones will vary but is expected to be partially completed and operational by 2021. SADCO has
committed to fund IMIC up to SAR 1,315 through equity contributions. At December 31, 2020, SAR 638 (2019: SAR 555) has been
drawn down by IMIC.
(d) Saudi Aramco Rowan Offshore Drilling Company (“ARO Drilling”)
In 2017, SADCO and Rowan Rex Limited formed a company, ARO Drilling (Note 38), to provide offshore drilling services to the Company.
In 2018, Mukamala Oil Field Services Limited (“MOFSL”) was incorporated as a subsidiary of SADCO and all the investment and related
commitments of ARO Drilling were transferred to MOFSL by way of a Novation Agreement. MOFSL has committed to invest SAR 2,719
through equity and shareholder loans, of which SAR 2,453 (2019: SAR 2,453) has been drawn down at December 31, 2020.
(e) Saudi Aramco Nabors Drilling Company (“SANAD”)
In 2017, SADCO and Nabors International Netherlands BV formed a company, SANAD (Note 38), to provide onshore drilling services to
the Company. In 2018, MOFSL was incorporated as a subsidiary of SADCO and all of SADCO’s investments and related commitments in
and to ARO Drilling were transferred to MOFSL by way of a Novation Agreement. Saudi Aramco has committed to lease 50 onshore
rigs over a ten-year period beginning in 2021 for an estimated value of SAR 24,263. In addition, Saudi Aramco has committed to award
drilling contracts for an estimated value of SAR 52,489 for up to 20 new build offshore rigs to be purchased by ARO Drilling over a
10-year period.
(f) Arabian Rig Manufacturing Company (‘‘ARM’’)
In June 2018, SADCO and NOV Downhole Eurasia Limited formed a company, ARM, to provide onshore land drilling manufacturing,
equipment and services to SANAD and the Middle East and North Africa region. Saudi Aramco committed to invest SAR 225, of which,
SAR 53 is invested at December 31, 2020 (2019: SAR 9). In addition, SADCO has guaranteed the purchase of 50 onshore rigs over
a 12-year period beginning in 2021 for an estimated value of SAR 6,741, and has the option to cancel the onshore rig orders for a
maximum financial exposure of SAR 1,358.
(g) Other
(i) I n order to comply with past Government directives, the Company expects to sell portions of its equity in Saudi Aramco Total
Refining and Petrochemical Company and Yanbu Aramco Sinopec Refining Company Ltd. (Note 39) through a public offering of
shares in Saudi Arabia. Also in order to comply with a past Government directive, Excellent Performance Chemical Company
(“EPCC”), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, expects to sell portions of its equity in Sadara (Note 34(a)) through a public
offering of shares in Saudi Arabia.
(ii) S audi Aramco is committed to comply with the Government directive to guarantee that Saudi Aramco Total Refining and
Petrochemical Company and Yanbu Aramco Sinopec Refining Company Ltd. shall spend a total of SAR 750 over a 10-year period
ending December 31, 2025 on social responsibility programs. At December 31, 2020, SAR 446 (2019: SAR 461) remains to be spent.
(iii) S audi Aramco has commitments of SAR 328 (2019: SAR 384) to invest in private equity investments both inside and outside the
Kingdom. Such commitments can be called on demand.
(iv) S audi Aramco has commitments of SAR 55 (2019: SAR 58) to fund additional loans and acquire additional unlisted equity
investments of certain small to mid-sized enterprises in the Kingdom. The commitments can be called by the enterprises upon
meeting certain conditions.
[Page 237]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 235
34. Contingencies
Saudi Aramco has contingent assets and liabilities with respect to certain disputed matters, including claims by and against
contractors and lawsuits and arbitrations involving a variety of issues. These contingencies arise in the ordinary course of business.
It is not anticipated that any material adjustments will result from these contingencies.
Saudi Aramco also has bank guarantees with respect to the acquisition of a subsidiary (Note 4) amounting to SAR 2,867 as of
December 31, 2020 arising in the ordinary course of business.
Saudi Aramco also has contingent liabilities with respect to the following:
(a) Sadara
In 2011, EPCC and Dow Saudi Arabia Holding B.V. (together to be referred to as the “Founding Shareholders”) signed a shareholder
agreement with a term of 99 years to construct and operate a fully-integrated chemicals complex at Jubail II Industrial City in Saudi
Arabia (“the Project”). Shortly thereafter, the Founding Shareholders formed Sadara to execute the Project. In May 2019, Saudi
Aramco committed to increase the total financing facility provided to Sadara from SAR 25,125 to SAR 32,035. As of December 31, 2020,
SAR 30,678 (2019: SAR 28,362) has been drawn down.
In 2013, Sadara entered into definitive agreements with certain export credit agencies and commercial banks for approximately
SAR 39,505 of project financing. In 2013, Sadara also conducted a project Sukuk issuance in Saudi Arabia for approximately SAR 7,500
with a final maturity in December 2028. Saudi Aramco previously provided guarantees of 65% of the senior debt (including Sukuk)
amounts owed by Sadara to its senior creditors. Sadara achieved project completion on November 23, 2020, which triggered the
automatic termination of these guarantees. As part of project completion, Saudi Aramco, on a several basis, provided a guarantee
for the funding of 65% of the debt service reserve account (DSRA) balance required by the senior creditors to cover Sadara’s
semi-annual scheduled senior debt principal and interest payments. Saudi Aramco’s guarantee amounts to approximately SAR 1,410
on a semi-annual basis. The DSRA guarantee terminates on the earliest of the final repayment date, a payment made under the
DSRA guarantee, and a written release from the senior creditors’ security agent.
With respect to Sadara’s fuel and feed-stock allocation, Saudi Aramco has provided two letters of credit to the Ministry of Energy
for SAR 169 and SAR 225 to construct epoxy plants and for the development of projects to support conversion industries in the
Kingdom.
(b) Petro Rabigh
In March 2015, the two founding shareholders of Petro Rabigh, the Company and Sumitomo Chemical Co. Ltd., concluded external
long-term debt financing arrangements (“Rabigh II Financing”) with lenders on behalf of Petro Rabigh for the Rabigh II Project (“the
Project”) for which the two shareholders provided guarantees for their equal share of the Rabigh II Financing. On September 30, 2020,
project completion under the Rabigh II Financing was successfully achieved. As a result, the guarantees provided of SAR 17,093 were
released. Concurrently, a Debt Service Undertaking (“DSU”) was provided by the two founding shareholders that covers shortfalls in
scheduled (not accelerated) debt service under the Rabigh II Financing until at least 50% of the shareholder guaranteed SAR 11,250
equity bridge loans (the “EBLs”) are repaid using share capital or shareholder-funded subordinated loans. The EBLs are due to be
repaid on October 1, 2022. The amount utilized under the DSU as of December 31, 2020 was SAR 1,041 (Company’s share SAR 521).
In addition, the two founding shareholders provided Petro Rabigh with shareholder funded revolving facilities (the “Shareholder
Facilities”) of up to SAR 7,500 with the Company’s share being SAR 4,688. As of December 31, 2020, Petro Rabigh has utilized SAR
6,750 (the Company’s share SAR 4,219). The Shareholder Facilities are scheduled to mature in September 2023, but provide for further
tenor extensions, which are subject to certain conditions being met at that time.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 238]
236 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
35. Investments in affiliates
(a) Investments in subsidiaries
(i) Saudi Aramco Shell Refinery Company
On September 18, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Shell Saudi Arabia Limited’s 50% equity interest for cash
consideration of SAR 2,366. As a result of this transaction, the Company has become the sole shareholder of the Saudi Aramco Jubail
Refinery Company (“SASREF”). SASREF owns and operates a 305,000 barrel per day refinery that includes a hydrocracker unit, a
visbreaker unit and a thermal gas-oil unit. Located in the Kingdom in Jubail, the refinery began commercial operations in 1986 and
currently produces naphtha, high-sulfur fuel oil, jet fuel and diesel fuel. This acquisition is in line with Saudi Aramco’s strategy of
expanding its Downstream portfolio, and strengthening its capabilities across the energy value chain. On increasing its ownership,
Saudi Aramco remeasured its investment to fair value and recognized a gain of SAR 1,278, which is reflected in the Consolidated
Statement of Income within finance and other income for the year ended December 31, 2019.
The transaction was accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting, which requires the assets acquired and liabilities
assumed to be recognized at their fair value as of the acquisition date. If the acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2019, the
consolidated revenue of Saudi Aramco would have been an additional SAR 394 and net income would have been an additional SAR 47
for the year ended December 31, 2019. In determining these amounts, management has assumed that the fair value adjustments that
arose on the acquisition date would have been the same if the acquisition occurred on the first day of the accounting period.
The fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities have been determined by management, assisted by an independent valuer, as part
of the purchase price allocation process.
The following table summarizes the goodwill and fair values of SASREF’s assets and liabilities acquired on September 18, 2019:
Cash and cash equivalents 1,233
Trade accounts receivable and other current assets 3,938
Inventories 1,260
Property, plant and equipment 5,461
Intangible assets 57
Other non-current assets 385
Trade and other payables (6,249)
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities (866)
Deferred tax liabilities (528)
Employee benefit obligations (298)
Lease liabilities (188)
Total identifiable net assets and liabilities at fair value 4,205
Goodwill 527
Total consideration 4,732
Acquisition date fair value of previously held interest (2,366)
Purchase consideration 2,366
Acquisition and transaction costs of nil and SAR 2 for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 were expensed as selling,
administrative and general in the Consolidated Statement of Income. The post-acquisition revenue of SAR 39 and net loss of SAR 925
is included in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended December 31, 2019.
[TABLE DATA]
1,233
3,938
1,260
5,461
57
385
(6,249)
(866)
(528)
(298)
(188)
4,205
527
4,732
(2,366)
2,366
[Page 239]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 237
35. Investments in affiliates continued
(ii) Investment in Motiva Chemicals LLC (“Motiva Chemicals”)
On October 31, 2019, Motiva Enterprises LLC (“Motiva”), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, acquired 100% of the equity
interest in Flint Hills Resources Port Arthur LLC which was immediately re-named as Motiva Chemicals. Motiva Chemicals was acquired
for total cash consideration of SAR 7,090. Motiva Chemicals owns and operates a chemical plant located in Port Arthur, Texas,
comprised of a mixed feed cracker, a cyclohexane unit, a benzene unit, NGL and ethylene pipelines and storage facilities. The
acquisition extends Motiva’s logistics capabilities, provides an early entry into petrochemicals and creates the opportunity to further
improve planned chemicals projects.
The transaction was accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting, which requires the assets acquired and liabilities
assumed to be recognized at their fair value as of the acquisition date. If the acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2019, the
consolidated revenue of Saudi Aramco would have been an additional SAR 2,928 and net loss would have been an additional SAR 28
for the year ended December 31, 2019.
Saudi Aramco engaged an independent valuer in order to determine the fair value of the assets and liabilities of Motiva Chemicals.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Motiva Chemicals as of the date of acquisition are as follows:
Cash and cash equivalents 11
Accounts receivable and other assets 229
Inventories 266
Property, plant and equipment 6,263
Intangible assets 544
Trade and other payables (184)
Post-employment benefit obligations and provisions (39)
Total identifiable net assets at fair value/purchase consideration 7,090
Acquisition and transaction costs of nil and SAR 13 were expensed as selling, administrative and general in the Consolidated Statement
of Income for the year ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. The post-acquisition revenue of SAR 372 and net loss of SAR 151 is
included in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended December 31, 2019.
(b) Investments in joint ventures and associates
(i) Investment in Tas’helat Marketing Company (“TMC”)
On June 17, 2019, Saudi Aramco Retail Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and Total Marketing S.A., a subsidiary of
Total S.A., each acquired a 50% interest in TMC for a total of SAR 770. TMC operates a network of 270 retail service stations under the
“Sahel” brand name and 73 convenience stores across the Kingdom. The two partners, over the next several years, will invest SAR
2,800 in upgrading the existing retail facilities and rebranding an equal number of the retail service stations with the two partners’
brand names.
The purchasers engaged an independent valuer in order to determine the fair value of the assets and liabilities of TMC as part of the
purchase price allocation. The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of TMC as of the date of acquisition are as follows:
Cash and cash equivalents 26
Accounts receivable and other assets 328
Inventories 44
Property, plant and equipment 362
Intangible assets 78
Trade and other payables (28)
Borrowings (128)
Post-employment benefit obligations and provisions (24)
Other liabilities (286)
Total identifiable net assets at fair value 372
Saudi Aramco’s 50% share 186
Goodwill 199
Purchase consideration 385
Acquisition and transaction costs of nil and SAR 4 were expensed as selling, administrative, and general in the Consolidated Statement
of Income for the year ended December 31, 2020 and 2019.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
| 0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
11
229
266
6,263
544
(184)
(39)
7,090
26
328
44
362
78
(28)
(128)
(24)
(286)
372
186
199
385
[Page 240]
238 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
35. Investments in affiliates continued
(ii) Hyundai Oilbank
On December 17, 2019, Aramco Overseas Company B.V. (“AOC”), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, acquired a 17%
equity interest in Hyundai Oilbank, a subsidiary of Hyundai Heavy Industries Holdings, for SAR 4,414 with an option to acquire an
additional 2.9% which can be exercised at any time before the earlier of five years or Hyundai Oilbank’s IPO. Hyundai Oilbank is
a private oil refining company in South Korea established in 1964. The business portfolio of Hyundai Oilbank and its subsidiaries
includes oil refining, base oil, petrochemicals, and a network of gas stations. The investment in Hyundai Oilbank supports Saudi
Aramco’s Downstream growth strategy of expanding its global footprint in key markets in profitable integrated refining, chemicals
and marketing businesses which enable Saudi Aramco to place crude oil and leverage its trading capabilities.
The carrying value of Hyundai Oilbank is recorded as an investment in associate (Note 8). Saudi Aramco engaged an independent
valuer in order to determine the fair values of the assets and liabilities of Hyundai Oilbank. As a result of the independent valuer’s
concluded purchase price allocation report, the previously reported fair values of the identifiable investments in affiliates and
intangible assets were updated. Accordingly, the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Hyundai Oilbank as of the date
of acquisition are as follows:
Cash and cash equivalents 1,541
Trade and other receivables 5,096
Inventories 8,074
Other assets 634
Investments in affiliates 6,769
Property, plant and equipment 26,100
Intangible assets 3,566
Trade and other payables (9,491)
Borrowings (12,604)
Other liabilities (4,432)
Total identifiable net assets at fair value 25,253
Hybrid securities (720)
Non-controlling interest (3,045)
Total identifiable net assets attributable to equity owners 21,488
Saudi Aramco's 17% share 3,653
Call option 143
Goodwill 618
Purchase consideration 4,414
(iii) Saudi Engines Manufacturing Company (“SEMC”)
On May 19, 2019, Saudi Aramco Development Company (“SADCO”), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, Korea Shipbuilding
Offshore Engineering (“KSOE”), and the Saudi Arabian Industrial Investments Company (“Dussur”) concluded an agreement to
establish an affiliate to form an engine manufacturing and aftersales facility in the Kingdom. The affiliate, Saudi Engines
Manufacturing Company (“SEMC”), is a limited liability company and was formed on November 16, 2020 by SADCO, which owns 55%
of the affiliate, and KSOE and Dussur own 30% and 15%, respectively. SADCO is a 25% shareholder of Dussur. The total investment in
SEMC will be up to SAR 646, of which SADCO’s share will be up to SAR 355.
(iv) Novel Non-Metallic Solutions Manufacturing (“Novel”)
On October 22, 2020, SADCO and Baker Hughes Energy Technology UK Limited (“Baker Hughes”) established an affiliate to create a
multi sectorial nonmetallic investment platform in the Kingdom. The affiliate, Novel Non-Metallic Solutions Manufacturing (“Novel”),
is a limited liability company and is owned 50% each by SADCO and Baker Hughes. The total investment in Novel will be up to SAR
400, of which SADCO’s share will be up to SAR 200.
[TABLE DATA]
1,541
5,096
8,074
634
6,769
26,100
3,566
(9,491)
(12,604)
(4,432)
25,253
(720)
(3,045)
21,488
3,653
143
618
4,414
[Page 241]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 239
36. Dividends
Dividends declared and paid on ordinary shares are as follows:
SAR per share
2020 2019 2020 2019
Quarter:
March1 50,227 86,250 0.25 0.43
June1 70,319 87,713 0.35 0.44
September 70,319 50,212 0.35 0.25
December 70,319 50,213 0.35 0.25
Total dividends paid 261,184 274,388 1.30 1.37
Dividend declared in December 2019, paid in January 2020 (35,475) 35,475 (0.18) 0.18
Total dividends declared 225,709 309,863 1.12 1.55
Dividends declared on March 18, 2021 and March 12, 20202 70,331 14,751 0.35 0.07
1. Dividends of SAR 50,227 paid in 2020 relate to 2019 results. Dividends of SAR 86,250 and SAR 37,500 paid in 2019 relate to 2018 results.
2. The consolidated financial statements do not reflect a dividend to shareholders of approximately SAR 70,331, which was approved in March 2021 (March 2020: SAR 14,751).
This dividend will be deducted from unappropriated retained earnings in the year ending December 31, 2021. A total of SAR 281,288 in dividends were declared in 2020 and 2021
that relate to 2020 results (2019: SAR 200,864).
37. Earnings per share
The following table reflects the net income and number of shares used in the earnings per share calculations:
2020 2019
Net income attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the Company 184,926 330,816
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (in millions) (Note 2(dd)) 199,884 199,993
Earnings per share for net income attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the Company (in Saudi Riyal) 0.93 1.65
Potential ordinary shares during the year ended December 31, 2020 related to employees’ share-based compensation in respect of
the ELTIP and MLTIP (2019: Celebratory Grant) share plans that were awarded to the Company’s eligible employees under those plan
terms (Note 18). These share plans did not have a significant dilution effect on basic earnings per share for the year ended December
31, 2020 and 2019.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
50,227
70,319
70,319
70,319
261,184
(35,475)
225,709
70,331
0.25
0.35
0.35
0.35
1.30
(0.18)
1.12
0.35
|
184,926 |
|
199,884 |
|
0.93 |
[Page 242]
240 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
38. Subsidiaries of Saudi Arabian Oil Company
Interest
income from
conventional
Conventional Conventional financial
Place of financial financial assets for the
business/ assets as of liabilities as of year ended
Principal country of December 31, December 31, December 31,
business activity incorporation 20201,2 20202 20202
A. Wholly owned:
4 Rivers Energy LLC Retail fuel operations USA – – –
People’s
Aramco (Beijing) Venture Management Republic of
Consultant Co. Ltd Investment China 1 1 –
Aramco Affiliated Services Company Support services USA 1 – –
Purchasing and
Aramco Asia India Private Limited other services India 15 25 –
Purchasing and
Aramco Asia Japan K.K. other services Japan 226 486 –
Purchasing and
Aramco Asia Korea Ltd. other services South Korea 39 8 –
Purchasing and
Aramco Asia Singapore Pte. Ltd. other services Singapore 23 48 –
Aramco Associated Company Aircraft operations USA 213 501 20
Aramco Capital Company, LLC Aircraft leasing USA 10 1 1
Aramco Chemicals Company Chemicals Saudi Arabia 799 518 2
People’s
Aramco Far East (Beijing) Business Services Petrochemical purchasing/ Republic of
Co., Ltd. sales and other services China 490 122 6
Aramco Financial Services Company Financing USA 1 (1) –
Production and sale
Aramco Gulf Operations Company Ltd. of crude oil Saudi Arabia 752 1,155 1
Research and
Aramco Innovations LLC commercialization Russia 12 2 –
British Virgin
Aramco International Company Limited Support services Islands – – –
Aramco Lubricants and Retail Company
(formerly: Saudi Aramco Retail Company) Retail fuel marketing Saudi Arabia 37 – –
Aramco Overseas Company Azerbaijan Support services Azerbaijan – (1) –
Purchasing and other
Aramco Overseas Company B.V. services Netherlands 3,623 2,059 60
Personnel and other
Aramco Overseas Company Spain, S.L. support services Spain – – –
Personnel and other United
Aramco Overseas Company UK, Limited support services Kingdom 3 139 –
Personnel and other
Aramco Overseas Egypt LLC support services Egypt – – –
Project management
Aramco Overseas Indonesia PT PMA ("AOI") support Indonesia – – –
Personnel and other
Aramco Overseas Malaysia Sdn. Bhd support services Malaysia 12 – –
Petrochemical
Aramco Performance Materials LLC manufacture and sales USA 10 6 –
Purchasing, engineering
Aramco Services Company and other services USA 345 404 1
Aramco Shared Benefits Company Benefit administration USA – – –
Importing, exporting
and trading of crude oil,
refined and chemical
Aramco Trading Company products Saudi Arabia 6,882 3,280 70
Importing/exporting
Aramco Trading Fujairah FZE refined products UAE 997 680 1
[TABLE DATA]
|  |
– | – | –
1 | 1 | –
1 | – | –
15 | 25 | –
226 | 486 | –
39 | 8 | –
23 | 48 | –
213 | 501 | 20
10 | 1 | 1
799 | 518 | 2
490 | 122 | 6
1 | (1) | –
752 | 1,155 | 1
12 | 2 | –
– | – | –
37 | – | –
– | (1) | –
3,623 | 2,059 | 60
– | – | –
3 | 139 | –
– | – | –
– | – | –
12 | – | –
10 | 6 | –
345 | 404 | 1
– | – | –
6,882 | 3,280 | 70
997 | 680 | 1
[Page 243]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 241
38. Subsidiaries of Saudi Arabian Oil Company continued
Interest
income from
conventional
Conventional Conventional financial
Place of financial financial assets for the
business/ assets as of liabilities as of year ended
Principal country of December 31, December 31, December 31,
business activity incorporation 20201,2 20202 20202
Importing/exporting United
Aramco Trading Limited refined products Kingdom 3 944 (1)
Marketing and
Aramco Trading Singapore PTE-LTD sales support Singapore 28 1,024 1
Aramco Venture Management Consultant
Company LLC (“AVM”) Consulting services USA – – –
Aramco Ventures Holdings Limited Investment Guernsey 98 – –
Aramco Ventures Investments Limited Investment Guernsey 75 – –
Development,
manufacture, and
marketing of high-
ARLANXEO Holding B.V. performance rubber Netherlands 412 2,888 12
ARLANXEO Belgium N.V. Belgium 260 119 –
ARLANXEO Branch Offices B.V. Netherlands 3 – –
ARLANXEO Brasil S.A. Brazil 182 218 5
ARLANXEO Canada Inc. Canada 283 257 –
ARLANXEO Deutschland GmbH Germany 375 338 –
ARLANXEO Elastomères Frances S.A.S. France 65 125 –
ARLANXEO Emulsion Rubber France S.A.S. France (430) 173 –
People's
ARLANXEO High Performance Elastomers Republic of
(Changzhou) Co., Ltd. China (128) 319 –
ARLANXEO India Private Limited India 1 – –
ARLANXEO Netherlands B.V. Netherlands 285 282 3
ARLANXEO Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore (405) 464 –
ARLANXEO Switzerland S.A. Switzerland 25 63 –
ARLANXEO USA LLC USA 135 263 2
Petroflex Trading S.A. Uruguay – – –
Aurora Capital Holdings LLC Real estate holdings USA – – –
Bolanter Corporation N.V. Crude oil storage Curaçao 14 – –
Briar Rose Ventures LLC Real estate holdings USA – – –
Canyon Lake Holdings LLC Retail fuel operations USA – – –
Petrochemical
Excellent Performance Chemicals Company manufacture and sales Saudi Arabia 1 – 98
Investment management
of post-employment
Investment Management Company benefit plans Saudi Arabia 3 – –
Petrochemical
Motiva Chemicals LLC manufacture USA 36 72 –
Motiva Enterprises LLC Refining and marketing USA 1,882 18,474 20
Motiva Pipeline LLC Refining USA – – –
Purchasing and sale
of petroleum goods
Motiva Trading LLC and other services USA 237 429 –
Mukamala International Investments Company Investment Saudi Arabia – – –
Mukamala Oil Field Services Limited Company Oil field services Saudi Arabia 479 – 3
Pandlewood Corporation N.V. Financing Curaçao 6,583 2 46
Pedernales Ventures II LLC ("PVII") Investment USA – – –
Pedernales Ventures LLC Retail fuel operations USA 111 – –
United
SAEV Europe Ltd. Investment Kingdom 4 2 –
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
3 | 944 | (1)
28 | 1,024 | 1
– | – | –
98 | – | –
75 | – | –
412 | 2,888 | 12
260 | 119 | –
3 | – | –
182 | 218 | 5
283 | 257 | –
375 | 338 | –
65 | 125 | –
(430) | 173 | –
(128) | 319 | –
1 | – | –
285 | 282 | 3
(405) | 464 | –
25 | 63 | –
135 | 263 | 2
– | – | –
– | – | –
14 | – | –
– | – | –
– | – | –
1 | – | 98
3 | – | –
36 | 72 | –
1,882 | 18,474 | 20
– | – | –
237 | 429 | –
– | – | –
479 | – | 3
6,583 | 2 | 46
– | – | –
111 | – | –
4 | 2 | –
[Page 244]
242 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
38. Subsidiaries of Saudi Arabian Oil Company continued
Interest
income from
conventional
Conventional Conventional financial
Place of financial financial assets for the
business/ assets as of liabilities as of year ended
Principal country of December 31, December 31, December 31,
business activity incorporation 20201,2 20202 20202
SAEV Guernsey 1 Ltd. Investment Guernsey 147 – –
SAEV Guernsey Holdings Ltd. Investment Guernsey 1,273 – 1
Saudi Aramco Asia Company Ltd. Investment Saudi Arabia 2,079 – 15
Saudi Aramco Capital Company Limited Investment Guernsey – – –
Saudi Aramco Development Company Investment Saudi Arabia 536 – 1
Saudi Aramco Energy Ventures – U.S. LLC Investment USA 2 1 –
Saudi Aramco Energy Ventures LLC Investment Saudi Arabia 17 – –
Saudi Aramco Entrepreneurship Center Company Ltd. Financing Saudi Arabia 151 4 5
Saudi Aramco Entrepreneurship Venture Company, Ltd. Investment Saudi Arabia 229 – –
Saudi Aramco Jubail Refinery Company Refining Saudi Arabia – 2,757 –
Saudi Aramco Power Company Power generation Saudi Arabia 6,197 3 16
Saudi Aramco Sukuk Company Investment Saudi Arabia – 28 –
Research and
Saudi Aramco Technologies commercialization Saudi Arabia 116 40 –
Research and
Saudi Aramco Upstream Technology Company commercialization Saudi Arabia 10 – –
Marketing support
Saudi Petroleum International, Inc. services USA 40 47 –
Marketing support United
Saudi Petroleum Overseas, Ltd. and tanker services Kingdom 52 37 –
Marketing support British Virgin
Saudi Petroleum, Ltd. and tanker services Islands 38 – –
Saudi Refining, Inc. Refining and marketing USA 277 62 1
Stellar Insurance, Ltd. Insurance Bermuda 9,854 990 619
Marine management
Vela International Marine Ltd. and transportation Liberia 27,317 – 128
Wisayah Global Investment Company Financial support Saudi Arabia 202 21 1
B. Unconsolidated structured entity
Energy City Development Company ("SPARK") Industrial development Saudi Arabia – – –
Energy City Operating Company ("SPARK") Industrial development Saudi Arabia – – –
C. Non-wholly owned4
49% Ownership of Aramco Training Services Company3 Training USA 1 – –
Development,
manufacture, and People’s
50% Ownership of ARLANXEO-TSRC (Nantong) marketing of high- Republic of
Chemical Industries Co., Ltd.3 performance rubber China 17 57 –
80% Ownership of Johns Hopkins
Aramco Healthcare Company Healthcare Saudi Arabia 623 568 3
Production and sale
70% Ownership of Saudi Aramco Base Oil Company of petroleum based
– LUBEREF lubricants Saudi Arabia 510 2,766 2
50% Ownership of Saudi Aramco Nabors Drilling
Company3 Drilling Saudi Arabia 1,370 1,998 11
50% Ownership of Saudi Aramco Rowan
Offshore Drilling Company3 Drilling Saudi Arabia 891 2,168 25
61.6% Ownership of S-Oil Corporation Refining South Korea 3,930 31,471 39
61.6% Ownership of S-Oil Singapore Pte. Ltd. Marketing support Singapore 5 45 –
The
Independent
Purchasing and sale State of
61.6% Ownership of S-International Ltd. of petroleum goods Samoa 4 – –
[TABLE DATA]
147 | – | –
1,273 | – | 1
2,079 | – | 15
– | – | –
536 | – | 1
2 | 1 | –
17 | – | –
151 | 4 | 5
229 | – | –
– | 2,757 | –
6,197 | 3 | 16
– | 28 | –
116 | 40 | –
10 | – | –
40 | 47 | –
52 | 37 | –
38 | – | –
277 | 62 | 1
9,854 | 990 | 619
27,317 | – | 128
202 | 21 | 1
|  |
– | – | –
– | – | –
|  |
1 | – | –
17 | 57 | –
623 | 568 | 3
510 | 2,766 | 2
1,370 | 1,998 | 11
891 | 2,168 | 25
3,930 | 31,471 | 39
5 | 45 | –
4 | – | –
[Page 245]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 243
38. Subsidiaries of Saudi Arabian Oil Company continued
Interest
income from
conventional
Conventional Conventional financial
Place of financial financial assets for the
business/ assets as of liabilities as of year ended
Principal country of December 31, December 31, December 31,
business activity incorporation 20201,2 20202 20202
70% Ownership of Saudi Basic Industries Corporation
(“SABIC”)5 Holding Saudi Arabia
70% Ownership of SABIC Luxembourg S.àr.l.
("SLUX") Holding Luxembourg
70% Ownership of SABIC Industrial Investments
Company ("SIIC") Holding Saudi Arabia
70% Ownership of Arabian Petrochemical Company
("PETROKEMYA")7 Toller Saudi Arabia
70% Ownership of Saudi Iron and Steel Company
("HADEED") Metals Saudi Arabia
70% Ownership of SABIC Investment and Local
Content Development Company ("NUSANED") Investment Saudi Arabia
70% Ownership of SABIC Agri-Nutrients Investment
Company ("SANIC") Agri-Nutrients Saudi Arabia
70% Ownership of International Shipping and
Transportation Co. ("ISTC") Support services Saudi Arabia
70% Ownership of SABIC Supply Chain Services
Limited Company ("SSCS") Petrochemical Saudi Arabia
70% Ownership of Saudi Specialty chemicals
company ("SP. CHEM")7 Petrochemical Saudi Arabia
70% Ownership of Saudi Organometallic Chemicals
Company ("SOCC")7 Petrochemical Saudi Arabia
50% Ownership of National Chemical Fertiliser
Company ("IBN AL-BAYTAR")3 Agri-Nutrients Saudi Arabia
49% Ownership of National Industrial Gases
Company ("GAS")3 Toller Saudi Arabia
36.4% Ownership of Yanbu National Petrochemical
Company ("YANSAB")3 Toller Saudi Arabia
52.5% Ownership of Saudi Methanol Company
("AR-RAZI") Toller Saudi Arabia
35% Ownership of Al-Jubail Fertiliser Company
("AL BAYRONI")3 Agri-Nutrients Saudi Arabia
35% Ownership of National Methanol Company
("IBN-SINA")3 Toller Saudi Arabia
33.6% Ownership of Arabian Industrial Fibers
Company ("IBN RUSHD")3 Toller Saudi Arabia
30% Ownership of SABIC Agri-Nutrients Company
(“SABIC AGRI-NUTRIENTS”) (formerly: Saudi Arabian
Fertilizer Company ("SAFCO"))3 Agri-Nutrients Saudi Arabia
24.5% Ownership of Saudi Kayan Petrochemical
Company ("SAUDI KAYAN")3 Toller Saudi Arabia
Ownership of SABIC Industrial Catalyst Company
("SABCAT")6 Petrochemical Saudi Arabia
Ownership of Saudi Carbon Fibre Company
("SCFC")6 Petrochemical Saudi Arabia
Ownership of Saudi Japanese Acrylonitrile
Company ("SHROUQ")6 Petrochemical Saudi Arabia
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics Petrochemical
Argentina SRL manufacture and sales Argentina
Petrochemical
70% Ownership of SHPP Argentina SRL manufacture and sales Argentina
70% Ownership of SABIC Australia Pty Ltd. Holding Australia
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
GmbH & Co. KG Agent Austria
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
[Page 246]
244 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
38. Subsidiaries of Saudi Arabian Oil Company continued
Interest
income from
conventional
Conventional Conventional financial
Place of financial financial assets for the
business/ assets as of liabilities as of year ended
Principal country of December 31, December 31, December 31,
business activity incorporation 20201,2 20202 20202
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics South Petrochemical
America-Indústria e Comércio de Plásticos Ltda manufacture and sales Brazil
70% Ownership of SHPP South America Comércio Petrochemical
de Plásticos Ltda manufacture and sales Brazil
70% Ownership of NV Pijpleiding
Antwerpen-Limburg-Luik ("PALL") Support services Belgium
70% Ownership of SABIC Belgium NV Petrochemical Belgium
70% Ownership of SHPP Canada, Inc. Petrochemical Canada
Petrochemical
70% Ownership of SABIC Petrochemicals Canada, Inc. manufacture and sales Canada
People's
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics Republic of
(China) Co., Ltd. Petrochemical China
People's
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics Petrochemical Republic of
(Chongqing) Co., Ltd. manufacture and sales China
People's
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics Republic of
International Trading (Shanghai) Ltd. Reseller China
People's
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics Republic of
Management (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Support services China
People's
Republic of
70% Ownership of SHPP (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Petrochemical China
People's
Republic of
70% Ownership of SABIC (Shanghai) Trading Co. Ltd. Reseller China
People's
70% Ownership of SABIC (China) Research & Republic of
Development Co. Ltd. T&I China
People's
Republic of
70% Ownership of SABIC China Holding Co. Ltd. Petrochemical China
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics Czech
Czech s.r.o. Agent Republic
Czech
70% Ownership of SHPP Czech s.r.o. Reseller Republic
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
Denmark Aps Agent Denmark
70% Ownership of SABIC Nordic A/S Agent Denmark
70% Ownership of SHPP Denmark Aps Reseller Denmark
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
Finland Oy Agent Finland
70% Ownership of SHPP Finland Oy Reseller Finland
70% Ownership of SABIC France S.A.S. Reseller France
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
France S.A.S. Agent France
70% Ownership of SHPP France S.A.S. Reseller France
70% Ownership of SABIC Deutschland GmbH Reseller Germany
70% Ownership of SABIC Holding Deutschland GmbH Holding Germany
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics GmbH Agent Germany
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics Holding
Germany GmbH Holding Germany
[TABLE DATA]
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
[Page 247]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 245
38. Subsidiaries of Saudi Arabian Oil Company continued
Interest
income from
conventional
Conventional Conventional financial
Place of financial financial assets for the
business/ assets as of liabilities as of year ended
Principal country of December 31, December 31, December 31,
business activity incorporation 20201,2 20202 20202
70% Ownership of SABIC Polyolefine GmbH Toller Germany
70% Ownership of SHPP Germany GmbH Reseller Germany
70% Ownership of SABIC Greece M.E.P.E. Agent Greece
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
Hong Kong Ltd. Reseller Hong Kong
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
SIT Holding Ltd. Holding Hong Kong
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
Taiwan Holding Ltd. Petrochemical Hong Kong
70% Ownership of SHPP Hong Kong Reseller Hong Kong
70% Ownership of SABIC Hungary Kft. Agent Hungary
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
Kereskedelmi Kft. Agent Hungary
70% Ownership of SHPP Hungary Kft. Reseller Hungary
70% Ownership of SABIC India Pvt Ltd. Agent India
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics Petrochemical
India Private Ltd. manufacture and sales India
70% Ownership of SABIC R&T Pvt Ltd. T&I India
70% Ownership of High Performance Plastics Petrochemical
India Pvt Ltd. manufacture and sales India
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics Italy Srl Toller Italy
70% Ownership of SABIC Italia Srl Reseller Italy
70% Ownership of SABIC Sales Italy Srl Agent Italy
70% Ownership of SHPP Italy Srl Toller Italy
70% Ownership of SHPP Sales Italy Srl Reseller Italy
Petrochemical
70% Ownership of SHPP Japan LLC manufacture and sales Japan
70% Ownership of SABIC Petrochemicals Japan LLC Petrochemical Japan
70% Ownership of SABIC Korea Ltd. Petrochemical South Korea
70% Ownership of SHPP Korea Ltd. Reseller South Korea
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
Malaysia Sdn Bhd Agent Malaysia
70% Ownership of SHPP Malaysia Sdn Bhd Reseller Malaysia
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics Petrochemical
Mexico S de RL de CV manufacture and sales Mexico
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
Servicios Mexico S de RL de CV Support services Mexico
70% Ownership of High Performance Plastics Petrochemical
Manufacturing Mexico S de RL de CV manufacture and sales Mexico
70% Ownership of High Performance Plastics
Service Mexico S de RL de CV Support services Mexico
Petrochemical
70% Ownership of BV Snij-Unie HiFi manufacture and sales Netherlands
70% Ownership of SABIC Capital B.V. Financing Netherlands
70% Ownership of SABIC Capital I B.V. Financing Netherlands
70% Ownership of Petrochemical Pipeline Services B.V. Support services Netherlands
70% Ownership of SABIC Europe B.V. Holding Netherlands
70% Ownership of SABIC Global Technologies B.V. T&I Netherlands
70% Ownership of SABIC International Holdings B.V. Holding Netherlands
Principal (Manufacturing,
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics B.V. Sales, R&D) Netherlands
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
[Page 248]
246 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
38. Subsidiaries of Saudi Arabian Oil Company continued
Interest
income from
conventional
Conventional Conventional financial
Place of financial financial assets for the
business/ assets as of liabilities as of year ended
Principal country of December 31, December 31, December 31,
business activity incorporation 20201,2 20202 20202
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics GP B.V. Holding Netherlands
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
Holding B.V. Holding Netherlands
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
Utilities B.V. Support services Netherlands
70% Ownership of SABIC Licensing B.V. T&I Netherlands
70% Ownership of SABIC Limburg B.V. Support services Netherlands
70% Ownership of SABIC Sales Europe B.V. Reseller Netherlands
Principal (Manufacturing,
70% Ownership of SABIC Petrochemicals B.V. Sales, R&D) Netherlands
70% Ownership of SABIC Ventures B.V. T&I Netherlands
70% Ownership of SABIC Mining B.V. Holding Netherlands
70% Ownership of SHPP Holding B.V. Holding Netherlands
70% Ownership of SHPP Global Technologies B.V. Petrochemical Netherlands
70% Ownership of SHPP Ventures B.V. T&I Netherlands
70% Ownership of SHPP Capital B.V. Financing Netherlands
70% Ownership of SHPP Capital I B.V. Financing Netherlands
70% Ownership of SHPP Capital II B.V. Financing Netherlands
Principal (Manufacturing,
70% Ownership of SHPP B.V. Sales, R&D) Netherlands
70% Ownership of SHPP Sales B.V. Reseller Netherlands
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
Poland Sp. Z o.o. Agent Poland
70% Ownership of SABIC Poland Sp. Z o.o. Agent Poland
70% Ownership of SHPP Poland Sp. Z o.o. Reseller Poland
70% Ownership of LLC SABIC Eastern Europe Agent Russia
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
Rus OOO Agent Russia
70% Ownership of SHPP Russia OOO Agent Russia
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
(SEA) Pte. Ltd. Reseller Singapore
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd. Holding Singapore
Petrochemical
70% Ownership of SHPP Singapore Pte. Ltd. manufacture and sales Singapore
70% Ownership of SABIC Asia Pacific Pte Ltd Reseller Singapore
70% Ownership of SHPP Slovakia s.r.o. Reseller Slovakia
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
Espana ScpA Toller Spain
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics GP BV,
Sociedad en Comandita Holding Spain
70% Ownership of SABIC Sales Spain SL Agent Spain
70% Ownership of SABIC Marketing Ibérica S.A. Reseller Spain
70% Ownership of SHPP Manufacturing SL Toller Spain
70% Ownership of SHPP Marketing Spain SL Reseller Spain
70% Ownership of Saudi Innovative Plastics
Sweden AB Agent Sweden
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
(Thailand) Co. Ltd. Petrochemical Thailand
70% Ownership of SABIC Thailand Co. Ltd. Petrochemical Thailand
[TABLE DATA]
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
[Page 249]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 247
38. Subsidiaries of Saudi Arabian Oil Company continued
Interest
income from
conventional
Conventional Conventional financial
Place of financial financial assets for the
business/ assets as of liabilities as of year ended
Principal country of December 31, December 31, December 31,
business activity incorporation 20201,2 20202 20202
70% Ownership of SHPP Petrokimya Ticaret Marketing and
Ltd Sirketi sales support Turkey
United
70% Ownership of SABIC Global Ltd. Holding Kingdom
United
70% Ownership of SABIC Tees Holdings Ltd. Holding Kingdom
United
70% Ownership of SHPP Manufacturing UK Ltd. Petrochemical Kingdom
United
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics Ltd. Agent Kingdom
United
70% Ownership of SABIC UK Ltd. Reseller Kingdom
Investment management
of post-employment United
70% Ownership of SABIC UK Pension Trustee Ltd. benefit plans Kingdom
United
70% Ownership of SABIC UK Petrochemicals Ltd. Toller Kingdom
United
70% Ownership of SHPP Sales UK Ltd. Reseller Kingdom
70% Ownership of Exatec, LLC T&I USA
35.7% Ownership of Mt. Vernon Phenol Petrochemical
Plant Partnership manufacture and sales USA
70% Ownership of SABIC Americas Inc. Reseller USA
70% Ownership of SABIC US Holdings LP Holding USA
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
Mt. Vernon, LLC Toller USA
Principal (Manufacturing,
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics US LLC Sales, R&D) USA
70% Ownership of SABIC Petrochemicals Petrochemical
Holding US, Inc. manufacture and sales USA
70% Ownership of SABIC Ventures US Holdings LLC T&I USA
70% Ownership of SABIC US Projects LLC Projects USA
70% Ownership of SABIC Americas Growth LLC Projects USA
70% Ownership of SABIC US Methanol LLC Projects USA
Principal (Manufacturing,
70% Ownership of SHPP US LLC Sales, R&D) USA
70% Ownership of SABIC Uruguay SA Agent Uruguay
70% Ownership of SABIC Vietnam Ltd. Agent Vietnam
70% Ownership of SHPP Vietnam Co Ltd Petrochemical Vietnam
70% Ownership of SABCAP Insurance Limited
("SABCAP") Insurance Guernsey
70% Ownership of SABIC Petrokemya Ticaret
Limited ("SABIC TURKEY") Reseller Turkey
70% Ownership of SABIC Middle East Offshore Marketing and
Company ("SABIC MIDDLE EAST") sales support Lebanon
Marketing and
70% Ownership of SABIC South Africa sales support South Africa
70% Ownership of SABIC Africa for Trading & Marketing and
Marketing ("SABIC AFRICA") sales support Egypt
Marketing and
70% Ownership of SABIC Morocco sales support Morocco
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
[Page 250]
248 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
38. Subsidiaries of Saudi Arabian Oil Company continued
Interest
income from
conventional
Conventional Conventional financial
Place of financial financial assets for the
business/ assets as of liabilities as of year ended
Principal country of December 31, December 31, December 31,
business activity incorporation 20201,2 20202 20202
70% Ownership of SABIC Global Mobility Company Personnel and other
("GMC") support services UAE
Ownership of SABIC Mobility Company
("GMC LLC")6 Petrochemical UAE
Marketing and
70% Ownership of SABIC Tunisia sales support Tunisia
Marketing and
70% Ownership of SABIC Kenya sales support Kenya
Marketing and
70% Ownership of SABIC (Pvt.) Pakistan sales support Pakistan
63% Ownership of SABIC Terminal Services Company
("SABTANK") Support services Saudi Arabia
52.5% Ownership of Jubail Chemical Storage and
Services Company ("CHEMTANK") Support services Saudi Arabia
1. Conventional financial assets comprise cash, time deposits, short-term investments and investments in securities.
2. Represents 100% amounts of subsidiaries, after elimination of intercompany transactions.
3. Agreements and constitutive documents provide Saudi Aramco control.
4. Percentages disclosed reflect the effective ownership of Saudi Aramco in the respective entities.
5. Information for conventional financial assets, liabilities and interest income from conventional financial assets not included for entities and groups listed on the Tadawul.
6. Under liquidation.
7. In February 2021, SP. CHEM and SOCC merged into PETROKEMYA.
[TABLE DATA]
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
[Page 251]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 249
39. Joint arrangements and associates of Saudi Arabian Oil Company
Interest
income from
conventional
Conventional Conventional financial
Place of financial financial assets for the
business / assets as of liabilities as of year ended
Principal Percent country of December 31, December 31, December 31,
business activity ownership4 incorporation 20201,2 20202 20202
A. Joint Operations:
Saudi-Kuwaiti
Oil and gas exploration Partitioned
Al-Khafji Joint Operations and production 50% Zone – – –
Fadhili Plant Cogeneration Company Power generation 30% Saudi Arabia 62 1,223 –
Maasvlakte Olie Terminal C.V. Tank storage 9.6% Netherlands – 70 –
Maasvlakte Olie Terminal N.V. Tank storage 16.7% Netherlands – 122 –
Pengerang Petrochemical Company
Sdn. Bhd. Petrochemical 50% Malaysia 8 2,824 1
Pengerang Refining Company Sdn. Bhd. Refining 50% Malaysia 574 22,221 4
Power Cogeneration Plant Company, LLC Power generation 50% Saudi Arabia 47 463 54
Saudi Aramco Mobil Refinery
Company Ltd. Refining 50% Saudi Arabia 312 3,111 2
Saudi Aramco Total Refining and
Petrochemical Company3 Refining/Petrochemical 62.5% Saudi Arabia 185 10,918 4
Yanbu Aramco Sinopec Refining
Company Limited3 Refining 62.5% Saudi Arabia 506 6,308 –
Gulf Coast Growth Venture LLC (“GCGV”)5 Petrochemical 35% USA
Utility Support Group B.V. (“USG”)5 Petrochemical 35% Netherlands
Saudi Methacrylates Company (“SAMAC”)5 Petrochemical 35% Saudi Arabia
B. Joint Ventures:
Arabian Rig Manufacturing ("ARM") Rig manufacturing 30% Saudi Arabia 6 356 –
First Coast Energy LLP ("FCE") Marketing 50% USA 4 364 1
Jasara Program Management Company
("Jasara") Engineering services 20% Saudi Arabia 124 75 –
Juniper Ventures of Texas LLP ("JVTX") Marketing 60% USA 23 – –
Novel Non-Metallics Solutions
Manufacturing (“Novel”) Manufacturing 50% Saudi Arabia 150 – –
Sadara Chemical Company ("Sadara") Petrochemical 65% Saudi Arabia 5,588 44,989 –
Saudi Arabian Industrial Investment
Company (“Dussur”) Investment 42.5% Saudi Arabia 1,255 20 20
Saudi Silk Road Industrial Services
Company ("SSRIS") Investment services 20% Saudi Arabia 115 – 3
Lubricants production/
S-Oil TOTAL Lubricants Co. Limited sale 50% South Korea 292 204 –
Star Enterprises LLC (“Star-Ent”) Pension administration 50% USA 4 – –
Tas'helat Marketing Company ("TMC") Marketing 50% Saudi Arabia 142 141 4
Advanced Energy Storage System
Company (“AESSC”)5 Petrochemical 30.1% Saudi Arabia
Al-Jubail Petrochemical Company
("Kemya")5 Petrochemical 35% Saudi Arabia
Eastern Petrochemical Company
("Sharq")5 Petrochemical 35% Saudi Arabia
SABIC Plastic Energy Advanced Recycling
BV (“SABIC Plastic Energy”)5 Petrochemical 35% Netherlands
SABIC SK Nexelene Company (“SSNC”)5 Petrochemical 35% Singapore
Cosmar Inc. ("COSMAR")5 Petrochemical 35% USA
Saudi Yanbu Petrochemical Company
("Yanpet")5 Petrochemical 35% Saudi Arabia
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
| 0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|  |
– | – | –
62 | 1,223 | –
– | 70 | –
– | 122 | –
8 | 2,824 | 1
574 | 22,221 | 4
47 | 463 | 54
312 | 3,111 | 2
185 | 10,918 | 4
506 | 6,308 | –
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
6 | 356 | –
4 | 364 | 1
124 | 75 | –
23 | – | –
150 | – | –
5,588 | 44,989 | –
1,255 | 20 | 20
115 | – | 3
292 | 204 | –
4 | – | –
142 | 141 | 4
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
[Page 252]
250 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
39. Joint arrangements and associates of Saudi Arabian Oil Company continued
Interest
income from
conventional
Conventional Conventional financial
Place of financial financial assets for the
business / assets as of liabilities as of year ended
Principal Percent country of December 31, December 31, December 31,
business activity ownership4 incorporation 20201,2 20202 20202
People's
Sinopec SABIC Tianjin Petrochemical Republic of
Company ("SSTPC")5 Petrochemical 35% China
C. Associates
BP AOC Pumpstation Maatschap Storage 50% Netherlands – – –
BP ESSO AOC Maatschap Storage 34% Netherlands – – –
People's
Fujian Refining and Petrochemical Republic of
Company Limited (“FREP”) Refining/Petrochemical 25% China 5,967 5,730 64
GCC Electrical Equipment Testing Lab
(“GCC Lab”) Inspection 20% Saudi Arabia 83 5 –
Hyundai Oilbank Co. Ltd. Refining /Marketing/
("Hyundai Oilbank") Petrochemical 17% South Korea 6,160 20,079 327
International Maritime Industries
Company (“IMIC”) Maritime 50.1% Saudi Arabia 586 – –
Lukoil Saudi Arabia Energy Ltd. British Virgin
(“LUKSAR”) Exploration 20% Islands – – –
Power & Water Utility Company for
Jubail and Yanbu (“Marafiq”) Utilities 42.2% Saudi Arabia 2,197 11,070 11
People's
Sinopec SenMei (Fujian) Petroleum Republic of
Company Limited (“SSPC”) Marketing/Petrochemical 22.5% China 1,668 2,137 25
Team Terminal B.V. Storage 34.4% Netherlands 20,355 – –
Aluminium Bahrain BSC ("ALBA")5 Aluminum 14.4% Bahrain
ARG mbH & Co. KG (“ARG”)5 Pipeline 23.8% Germany
Clariant AG ("Clariant")5 Specialty chemical 22.1% Switzerland
Gulf Aluminum and Rolling Mills
Company (“GARMCO”)5 Aluminum 21.3% Bahrain
Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company
(“GPIC”)5 Petrochemical 23.3% Bahrain
Ma'aden Phosphate Company ("MPC")5 Agri-Nutrients 21% Saudi Arabia
Ma'aden Wa'ad Al Shamal Phosphate
Company ("MWSPC")5 Agri-Nutrients 10.5% Saudi Arabia
National Chemical Carrier Company
(“NCC”)5 Transportation 14% Saudi Arabia
National Shipping Company of
Saudi Arabia (“Bahri”)5 Global logistics services 20% Saudi Arabia
Rabigh Refining and Petrochemical
Company (“Petro Rabigh”)5 Refining/Petrochemical 37.5% Saudi Arabia
Saudi Acrylic Butanol Company
(“SABUCO”)5 Petrochemical 23.3% Saudi Arabia
1. Conventional financial assets comprise cash, time deposits, short-term investments and investments in securities.
2. Represents Saudi Aramco’s share of conventional financial assets, financial liabilities and interest income.
3. Agreements and constitutive documents do not give a single shareholder control; therefore, the joint operation does not qualify as a subsidiary.
4. Percentages disclosed reflect the effective ownership of Saudi Aramco in the respective entities.
5. Information for conventional financial assets, liabilities and interest income from conventional financial assets not included for entities and groups listed on the Tadawul.
[TABLE DATA]
|  |
|  |
– | – | –
– | – | –
5,967 | 5,730 | 64
83 | 5 | –
6,160 | 20,079 | 327
586 | – | –
– | – | –
2,197 | 11,070 | 11
1,668 | 2,137 | 25
20,355 | – | –
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
[Page 253]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 251
40. Events after the reporting period
On January 4, 2021, SABIC Agri-Nutrients Company (“SABIC AGRI-NUTRIENTS”), formerly Saudi Arabian Fertilizer Company
(“SAFCO”), acquired 100% of the issued share capital of SABIC Agri-Nutrients Investment Company (“SANIC”) from SABIC in
consideration for the issue by SAFCO of 59,368,738 additional shares to SABIC thereby increasing SABIC’s ownership of SAFCO
from 43% to 50.1%. Under the terms of the transaction, SABIC injected cash of SAR 392 into SANIC prior to its transfer to SAFCO and
an adjustment to the purchase price will be required depending on the levels of net working capital and net cash at completion.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoC
|
0202
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS