SOURCE: Saudi Aramco — Annual Report 2019
TYPE: Annual Report
URL: https://www.aramco.com/-/media/publications/corporate-reports/annual-reports/saudi-aramco-ara-2019-english.pdf
============================================================

[Page 2]
A category all our own
Saudi Aramco is the world’s
largest integrated oil and gas
company, producing the energy
and chemicals that drive global
commerce and enhance the
daily lives of people around
the globe.
From our proven upstream capabilities and our
strategically integrated global downstream network,
to our focus on technology and sustainability, we have
created value that places us in a category all our own.
Our behavior is what defines us – as a company,
as employees, as people. Everything we do is
anchored by our corporate values: excellence,
safety, citizenship, integrity and accountability.
Reporting period and boundary
The financial and operational aspects of Saudi Aramco are covered in this Annual Report.
The Annual Report covers the period from January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019 and has
been issued in both Arabic and English. In the event of any discrepancy, the Arabic version
shall prevail.
The print version of the Annual Report is identical to its PDF counterpart, which is available
on the Company’s website at saudiaramco.com.
[Page 3]
contents
1 6
Saudi Aramco Corporate governance
06 Chairman’s message 108 Board of Directors
08 President and CEO’s foreword 112 Senior Executives
10 History 114 Board structure and composition
12 2019 highlights 116 Audit Committee report
14 Saudi Aramco’s operations 118 Risk and HSE Committee report
18 Business model 119 Nomination Committee statement
120 Compensation Committee statement
2 121 Compensation and other interests
Business overview
124 Governance, risk and compliance
and strategy
24 Business overview
7
Consolidated financial
28 Market overview
statements
29 Strategy
128 Independent auditor’s report
3 136 Consolidated statement of income
137 Consolidated statement
Results and performance of comprehensive income
38 CFO’s message 138 Consolidated balance sheet
39 Financial performance 139 Consolidated statement
of changes in equity
46 Upstream
140 Consolidated statement of cash flows
54 Downstream
141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
62 Corporate
8
4 Additional financial
Environmental, social
and legal information
and governance (ESG)
202 Additional financial information
66 Sustainability at Saudi Aramco
206 Reserves information
68 Governance framework
208 Regulation of the oil and gas industry
72 Environmental stewardship in the Kingdom
78 People and communities 212 Additional legal information
218 Forecasts and forward-looking statements
5 219 Terms and abbreviations
221 Glossary
Risk
88 Risk management
90 Risk factors
[Page 8]
06
chairman’s
message
As the need for energy continues to rise, we
seek to be a force for progress and opportunity,
not only by providing reliable energy, but also by
investing in the sustainability of our business and
the world in which we all live
In 2019 Saudi Aramco made history. Operationally, in 2019 Saudi Aramco also
demonstrated remarkable resilience in the
During the year, we achieved a number face of unprecedented adversity following
of major milestones that served to solidify attacks on our facilities at Shaybah, Abqaiq
Saudi Aramco’s standing as the world’s and Khurais. Thankfully, in each of the
largest integrated oil and gas company. First incidents there were no fatalities and overall
and foremost among these milestones was output was reduced only temporarily due to
our initial public offering (IPO) and listing on the extraordinary efforts of many individuals.
the Saudi Stock Exchange (Tadawul), which
provided eligible investors the first-ever Financially, Saudi Aramco once again
opportunity to directly take a stake in our delivered solid earnings and strong cash
company. Indeed, we are pleased to welcome flows through consistent operational
all our new investors alongside our majority performance, cost management and fiscal
shareholder, the Government of Saudi Arabia. discipline.
In addition to completing the world’s largest Careful stewardship
We are actively working IPO in 2019, we established our presence It has been almost nine decades since the
in the global capital markets through
Kingdom granted an initial concession to
towards providing a landmark US$12 billion inaugural
explore for oil across the remote sands of the
international bond issuance earlier in the
Arabian desert. Over that time, our company
sustainable and profitable year, as well as disclosing detailed financial,
has built a reputation for both safety and
operational and reserves information for the
growth, and increased reliability. We are passionate about
first time in our history. The success of the
preserving the environment and are actively
Tadawul listing and the response to our
value for our shareholders working towards providing sustainable and
global debt offering were strong votes of
profitable growth, and increased value for
and customers.” investor confidence in Saudi Aramco’s track our shareholders and customers.
record and potential for continued growth.
Of course, value creation means more
Another important milestone specific to
than just dollars generated or dividends
Saudi Aramco’s downstream strategy in 2019
distributed – it is also measured by the
was the signing of the purchase agreement
positive contributions that a company makes
to acquire a majority equity interest in
to people, to communities and to the world
Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (SABIC).
as a whole. On this count, Saudi Aramco
Following the expected closing of this
continues to excel by prudently managing the
transaction in the first half of 2020,
Kingdom’s reserves while meeting the daily
Saudi Aramco will be a major petrochemical
needs of its customers around the world.
producer globally.
ocmara
iduas
[Page 9]
07
Saudi Aramco
announces
its intention to
float on Tadawul
As the need for energy continues to rise, In 2019, we also welcomed one new Board
we seek to be a force for progress and member, H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi, who
opportunity, not only by providing reliable previously served as the Minister of Transport We achieved a number
energy, but also by investing in the sustainability of Saudi Arabia. The wide range and high
of major milestones that
of our business and the world in which we level of experience and expertise that our
all live. We remain committed to leveraging directors individually bring to the table will
served to solidify Saudi
technology and innovation to lower the be vital as we continue to pursue our strategy
climate impact of our industry and its products. for the future. Aramco’s standing as the
We endeavor to strengthen our legacy of
corporate responsibility and continue to Saudi Aramco’s achievements during the world’s largest integrated
manage the environmental, social and past year would not have been possible
governance (ESG) issues that are important without the clear vision and continued oil and gas company.”
to our stakeholders and our business. support of the Custodian of the Two Holy
Mosques King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud,
Strong governance and His Royal Highness Prince Mohammed
bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud, Crown
It was an honor to be appointed to serve as
Prince, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister
Chairman of the Board of Directors (Board)
of Defense of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
of this great company. I am deeply humbled
by the responsibilities of the important role
Shared success
Saudi Aramco plays as a key contributor to
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and its Vision On behalf of the Board, I want to take this
2030, as well as to global growth and opportunity to pay tribute to all the men
prosperity. My promise to all shareholders and women of Saudi Aramco – not only now,
is to work closely with my Board colleagues but throughout its history – whose collective
and with Amin and his entire management performance and commitment have
team to continue to deliver on our strategy propelled our company to the position
while providing sustainable and growing it occupies today. I also want to thank all
dividends to our shareholders through our new shareholders as well as our
crude oil price cycles. long-standing customers, partners, suppliers,
and communities where we operate for
The strong position of Saudi Aramco today is their confidence in Saudi Aramco and their
a testament to the considerable contributions contributions to our shared success.
of my predecessor, H.E. Khalid A. Al-Falih,
who led the company through an important
time of transformation. On behalf of the H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan
Board, I thank Khalid for his dedication and Chairman of the Board of Directors
for his many years of service to Saudi Aramco
and to Saudi Arabia.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 10]
08
president and
CEO’s foreword
2019 was a year in which the world
was offered unprecedented insight into
what this company is made of, the spirit of
our people, and the principles that guide us
When the definitive history of Saudi Aramco proved negligible. This demonstrated how
is written, 2019 will be considered exceptional seriously Saudi Aramco takes its role and
for a number of reasons. Through a variety of responsibility in meeting market demands.
circumstances both planned and unexpected,
it was a year in which the world was offered Notwithstanding bearish signals that global
unprecedented insight into what this company economic growth slowed to some degree in
is made of, the spirit of our people, and 2019, global demand for crude oil is expected
the principles that guide us. And with this, to continue growing for years to come, with
I believe the public gained a powerful GDP growth led primarily by non-OECD
appreciation not only of how we operate, Asia Pacific. Short-term market uncertainty,
but of what Saudi Aramco means to the swings in commodity prices and unclear
future of energy. energy policies continue to impact long-term
investment in new and traditional energy
In December, we completed Saudi Aramco’s sources and production. However, we
record-breaking IPO with the listing of shares continue to maintain our commitment to
on Tadawul. This followed April’s launch of invest in the future and in March 2020 we
In a year of both tests our first-ever global debt offering, which announced an increase in crude oil supply
attracted significant investor interest. The beginning April 1, and subsequently
and triumphs, 2019 might response to both our IPO and debt offering Saudi Aramco received a directive from
can be seen as a testament to what we the Government to increase our maximum
best be remembered have worked so hard to achieve over nearly sustainable capacity. Indeed, our work to
nine decades of successful operations. build the world’s foremost integrated energy
as the year the world
Either event alone would have made for and chemicals company moved forward with
a banner year; together, they represent resolve, and in significant ways.
came to better know
a historic transformation.
Saudi Aramco.” Preeminence
Resilience
Our preeminence in upstream remains the
As Saudi Aramco’s global visibility was cornerstone of our business, positioning
increasing, the world witnessed powerful Saudi Aramco as not only the world’s leading
examples of our importance to the crude oil crude oil producer by production volume,
market and the resilience that defines us but also the lowest cost producer, one of the
when, first, our Shaybah NGL facility was most reliable crude oil suppliers, and among
attacked in August, and then in September the world’s least carbon intense sources
our oil processing facilities at Abqaiq and of crude oil. In 2019, we entered into
Khurais were attacked. The damage inflicted agreements that will increase hydrocarbon
by the September strikes resulted in a production capacities at the Berri and Marjan
temporary shutdown of approximately 54% fields. The Marjan program also includes
of Saudi Aramco’s crude oil processing capacity, the construction of a gas plant in the Tanajib
which caused understandable concern in area. Further, the development of our Fadhili
energy markets. Through an inspiring display gas processing facility is on track to deliver
of unity across our workforce, production an additional 2.5 bscfd of gas processing
was restored to pre-attack levels within capacity upon completion in 2020. And in
11 days and the impact on the markets February 2020, we received regulatory
ocmara
iduas
[Page 11]
09
approval for the development of the Jafurah Innovation is an important contributor
unconventional gas field in the Eastern to our environmental stewardship as we
Province, the largest unconventional gas field continue to deliver new value across our We continue to support
in the Kingdom to date, which will provide business through research and development
the Kingdom’s efforts
valuable feedstock for the petrochemical and initiatives, which resulted in a record
metallic industries. We expect the field’s 524 U.S. patents being granted.
to achieve the objectives
production to commence in early 2024.
We are also deeply committed to supporting of the United Nations
Growth the Kingdom’s Vision 2030 by building
a stronger, more diverse and competitive Framework Convention
In the downstream business, Saudi Aramco
energy sector. In 2019, the key measure for
continued to make solid progress towards
iktva, our local supply chain development on climate change, the
its long-term strategic goal of increasing its
initiative, continued to show improvement
global gross refining capacity. In addition, Paris Agreement,
by reaching 56%.
in March 2019, Saudi Aramco entered into a
purchase agreement to acquire a 70% equity the United Nations
In a year of both tests and triumphs, 2019
stake in SABIC, which when completed will
see Saudi Aramco’s chemicals business might best be remembered as the year the Environment Program
world came to better know Saudi Aramco –
operating in more than 50 countries.
and what it came to know could not make as well as other climate
Elsewhere, we acquired a 17% equity interest
me prouder. Our men and women have
in Hyundai Oilbank in South Korea and saw
exemplified time and again a culture of change mitigation efforts.”
our wholly owned subsidiary Motiva acquire
resilience, the pride they take in their work,
100% interest in Motiva Chemicals LLC
and our total commitment to safely, reliably
(formerly Flint Hills Resources Port Arthur
and responsibly deliver energy that is building
LLC) in the USA. We also continued to
a brighter tomorrow. These are qualities
develop Jazan, an integrated petrochemical
I have long known and cherished about
refinery in the Kingdom, and PRefChem,
Saudi Aramco, and it is tremendously
an integrated refinery and petrochemicals
rewarding to see the world gain this insight
complex in Malaysia, with both facilities
and share in this appreciation.
expected to become fully operational in 2020.
As we move forward, Saudi Aramco
Amin H. Nasser
will continue its commitment to being
President and Chief Executive Officer
a responsible steward of the environment.
Having already achieved one of the lowest
upstream carbon footprints per unit of
hydrocarbons produced, we continue to
support the Kingdom’s efforts to achieve the
objectives of the United Nations Framework
Convention on climate change, the Paris
Agreement, the United Nations Environment
Program as well as other climate change
mitigation efforts. In 2019, we proudly
endorsed and signed the World Bank’s
“Zero Routine Flaring by 2030” initiative.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 12]
10
history
Our history dates back more than
85 years, when a small group of intrepid
adventurers set out to explore the deserts
of Saudi Arabia
1933-1944 1945-1965
The birth Expansion
of Arabian oil
1933 Oil concession agreement signed 1948 Standard Oil Company of New
with Standard Oil of California Jersey, later Exxon, purchases
who creates the California 30% of Aramco, and Socony-
Arabian Standard Oil Company Vacuum Oil Company, later
(CASOC) to manage the Mobil, purchases 10% to help
concession provide market outlets
1938 Oil discovered at Dammam Well 1949 Oil production hits 500 mbpd
No. 7
1952 Aramco headquarters moved
1939 Oil exports begin from New York City to Dhahran
1944 CASOC renamed the Arabian 1958 Oil production exceeds
American Oil Company (Aramco) 1 mmbpd
1965 Oil production exceeds
2 mmbpd
ocmara
iduas
[Page 13]
11
Dhahran 1936
1966-1988 1989-2014 2015-2019
Making a name A global company Transformation
for ourselves
1971 Oil production averages 1989 First international downstream 2017 Saudi Aramco acquires full
4.5 mmbpd joint venture, in U.S. ownership of Motiva
1973 The Saudi Government acquires 1991 First downstream venture in Asia, 2018 Saudi Aramco becomes a joint
an initial 25% participating in South Korea stock company
interest in the concession, which
1993 Saudi Aramco assumes the assets Saudi Aramco acquires full
increases to 60% the following
and operations of Saudi Arabian ownership of ARLANXEO
year
Marketing and Refining Company,
2019 Saudi Aramco enters into a
1976 Aramco becomes the world’s a Government-owned in-Kingdom
purchase agreement to acquire
leading oil producer in terms of refining and international product
a 70% equity interest in SABIC
volume produced in a single year marketing organization
Saudi Aramco issues $12.0 billion
1980- Saudi Government increases its 2009 Petro Rabigh, Saudi Aramco’s
of Senior Unsecured Notes listed
1981 participation interest in Aramco’s first petrochemical plant, begins
on the London Stock Exchange
crude oil concession rights, production
production and facilities to 100% Saudi Aramco becomes a public
2011 Sadara Chemical Company formed
company with shares listed on
1988 Saudi Aramco officially
2014 SATORP and YASREF refineries Tadawul
established
come online
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 14]
12
2019
highlights
Our work to build the world’s foremost
integrated energy and chemicals company
moved forward in 2019 with resolve, and
in significant ways
February March
Saudi Aramco signs agreement Saudi Aramco showcases
to form the largest Sino-foreign innovative engine technologies at
joint venture with NORINCO Geneva International Motor Show
and Panjin Sincen in China
Saudi Aramco signs purchase
Saudi Aramco signs agreements agreement to acquire a 70%
to acquire stake in Zhejiang equity stake in SABIC from the
Integrated Refining & Public Investment Fund of
Petrochemical Complex Saudi Arabia (PIF)
August September
Saudi Aramco publicly reports H.E. Yasir Othman Al-Rumayyan
first-ever half-year financial results, named Chairman of the Board
with net income of $46.9 billion
New Aramco Singapore office
marks regional downstream
expansion and integration
Following the September 14
attacks on Abqaiq and Khurais
plants, Saudi Aramco restores
production to pre-attack output
on September 25
Saudi Aramco completes the
acquisition of the remaining 50%
equity interest in the SASREF
refining joint venture, from Shell
ocmara
iduas
[Page 15]
13
Saudi Aramco
goes public
April June July
Saudi Aramco issues $12.0 billion Aramco Trading Company opens Saudi Aramco awards contracts
of Senior Unsecured Notes listed Fujairah office in UAE valued at $18 billion to increase
on the London Stock Exchange Marjan and Berri oilfields’
Saudi Aramco and Air Products production capacity by 550 mbpd
Aramco Trading signs Supply inaugurate Saudi Arabia’s first and 2.5 bscfd of gas
Agreement with “PKN Orlen”, hydrogen fueling station
Poland’s leading oil refiner,
enhancing downstream Saudi Aramco inaugurates new
integration in Europe complex with S-Oil in Ulsan,
South Korea, advancing its global
chemicals strategy
Saudi Aramco acquires a network
of 270 service stations and a
fuel tanker fleet in Saudi Arabia
through a joint venture with Total
October November December
Motiva, a wholly owned Saudi Aramco announces Saudi Aramco lists on Tadawul
subsidiary, acquires a 100% equity intention to float
interest in Motiva Chemicals LLC Saudi Aramco acquires a 17%
(formerly Flint Hills), a chemical Saudi Aramco joins World Bank’s equity interest in Hyundai Oilbank
plant in Port Arthur, Texas “Zero Routine Flaring by 2030” in South Korea
initiative
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 19]
17
Saudi Aramco’s values
Excellence Safety Integrity
At Saudi Aramco, excellence translates into Safety is an integral part of Saudi Aramco’s The integrity of business at Saudi Aramco
all aspects of our workplace. It is our personal culture. We are committed to providing is based on the ethical standards of our
and group commitment to doing what we a safe and respectful working environment employees in our everyday operations.
do well. We drive for best results and are for all with the appropriate safety procedures Integrity is a precious asset, it is our reputation.
agile in addressing new challenges. and policies in place on-site and within The foundation of corporate integrity is
the community. personal integrity.
As a business, we drive excellence by
setting challenging goals, rewarding top We define safety as protecting ourselves, We treat people with fairness and respect,
performance, committing ourselves to protecting others and protecting our future. we embrace diversity and accept differences
developing our people, encouraging and we do not tolerate misconduct.
innovation, creativity and diversity of Citizenship
thought, and fostering teamwork and No matter where in the world we are Accountability
open communication. conducting business, it is important to be Accountability means all employees at
known as a good corporate citizen and to Saudi Aramco take responsibility for their
be a positive influence within communities. actions in meeting corporate objectives.
As a global company in Saudi Arabia, we Accountability for achieving Saudi Aramco’s
take this role seriously. overarching business objectives starts with
the goals and objectives outlined by the
We define citizenship as acting as a catalyst President & CEO for its business lines, and
for economic growth, demonstrating social pervades through Saudi Aramco.
responsibility, supporting our communities
and serving as role models in building solid Our employees place authority where
relationships with our customers and partners. responsibility lies, deliver on commitments
and seek and provide constructive feedback.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 20]
18
Business model
Our resources What we do
Saudi Aramco’s conventional proved reserves Upstream
and crude oil production are unrivalled.
Saudi Aramco is the world’s
Through the utilization of a skilled workforce
largest producer of crude oil
operating in a safe and reliable manner and and condensate. We manage
the Kingdom’s unique reserves
leveraging technology, Saudi Aramco sustains and resource base to optimize
production and maximize
its low cost and low carbon intensity crude
long-term value.
oil production.
See page 46 for more detail.
Total 2019 hydrocarbon Total 2019 crude oil and
reserves condensate reserves
(billion boe) (billion barrels)
258.6 201.9
Downstream
Saudi Aramco has a large,
strategically integrated global
Employees1 Lost Time Injury Rate2 downstream business. Our
(LTI) Downstream segment activities
(per 200,000 man-hours) consist primarily of refining and
petrochemical manufacturing,
79,000 0.016
supply and trading, distribution
and power generation.
See page 54 for more detail.
Research centers Granted U.S. patents3
12 524
Upstream and Downstream
integration
The strategic integration of our Upstream and
Downstream segments enables us to secure crude
oil demand by selling to a dedicated system of
domestic and international wholly owned and
affiliated refineries.
1. The Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
2. In-Kingdom wholly owned operated assets.
3. The Company and its subsidiaries ARLANXEO and Motiva.
ygetarts
dna
weivrevo
ssenisub
[TABLE DATA]
Our resources
Saudi Aramco’s conventional proved reserves
and crude oil production are unrivalled.
Through the utilization of a skilled workforce
operating in a safe and reliable manner and
leveraging technology, Saudi Aramco sustains
its low cost and low carbon intensity crude
oil production.
Total 2019 hydrocarbon Total 2019 crude oil and
reserves condensate reserves
(billion boe) (billion barrels)
258.6 201.9
Employees1 Lost Time Injury Rate2
(LTI)
(per 200,000 man-hours)
79,000 0.016
Research centers Granted U.S. patents3
12 524
1. The Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
2. In-Kingdom wholly owned operated assets.
3. The Company and its subsidiaries ARLANXEO and Motiva. |  |
|  |
[Page 23]
21
Value we create
Saudi Aramco strives to create value across the
hydrocarbon chain. Our energy and chemicals
production drives commerce and enhances the
daily lives of people around the globe.
Financial
Average realized Net income EBIT*
crude oil price (billion) (billion)
($/barrel)
64.6 331 667
SAR SAR
$88 $178
Free cash flow* ROACE* Gearing*
(billion) (%) (%)
294 28.4 -0.2
SAR
$78
Shareholder
Dividend paid
(billion)
274
SAR
$73
Operational
Hydrocarbon production Crude oil production5 Total traded volumes
(mmboed) (mmbpd) (mmbpd)
13.2 9.9 4.5
Environmental
Upstream carbon Flaring intensity6
intensity6 (scf/boe)
(kg of COe/boe)
2
10.1 5.54
* Non-IFRS measure: refer to Section 3: Results and performance.
risk approach, strong governance and ethics 5. Includes blended condensate and excludes the Kingdom of Bahrain‘s entitlement to volumes produced from the Abu Sa’fah field.
6. In-Kingdom wholly owned operated assets.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
risk approach, strong governance and ethics |
[Page 27]
25
Overview of Saudi Aramco
Saudi Aramco is the world’s largest
integrated oil and gas company. Its primary
operating segments are the Upstream
segment and the Downstream segment,
which are supported by corporate activities.
Saudi Aramco’s upstream operations are
based in the Kingdom while the downstream
business is global.
In 2019, Saudi Aramco produced
13.2 mmboed of hydrocarbons, including
9.9 mmbpd of crude oil (including blended
condensate, and excluding the Kingdom of
Bahrain’s share of volumes produced from
the Abu Sa’fah field). As at December 31,
2019, based on the initial 40-year period and
20-year extension of the Concession, Saudi
Aramco’s reserves stood at 258.6 billion boe,
including 201.9 billion barrels of crude oil and
condensate, 25.7 billion barrels of NGLs and
190.6 tscf of natural gas. In addition, as at
December 31, 2019, Saudi Aramco had a
gross refining capacity of 6.4 mmbpd and
net refining capacity of 3.6 mmbpd.
Saudi Aramco manages
the Kingdom’s unique
reserves and resources
base to optimize
production and maximize
long-term value
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 28]
26
Upstream The Government determines the Kingdom’s
maximum level of crude oil production in
The Upstream segment’s activities consist
the exercise of its sovereign prerogative and
of exploring for, developing and producing
requires Saudi Aramco to maintain MSC.
crude oil, condensate, natural gas and NGLs.
As at December 31, 2019, Saudi Aramco’s
Saudi Aramco manages the Kingdom’s
MSC was 12.0 mmbpd of crude oil. The spare
unique reserves and resource base to
capacity afforded by maintaining MSC
optimize production and maximize long-term
enables Saudi Aramco to increase its crude
value pursuant to the Hydrocarbons Law,
oil production above planned levels rapidly
which mandates that Saudi Aramco’s
in response to changes in global crude oil
hydrocarbon operations promote long-term
supply and demand. Saudi Aramco also uses
productivity of the Kingdom’s reservoirs
this spare capacity as an alternative supply
and support the prudent stewardship of its
option in case of unplanned production
hydrocarbon resources.
outages at any field and to maintain its
production levels during routine field
Saudi Aramco’s principal fields are located
maintenance.
in close proximity to each other within
the Central and Eastern Provinces of the
Saud Aramco is the exclusive supplier of
Kingdom. An extensive pipeline network
natural gas in the Kingdom and its gas
connects Saudi Aramco’s fields, processing
portfolio is rich in liquids, demonstrated by
plants and other facilities. The crude oil,
its production of unblended condensate and
1 3.2 condensate, natural gas and NGLs produced
NGLs as byproducts of its crude production.
travel through Saudi Aramco’s pipelines to
Saudi Aramco owns and operates the MGS,
multiple facilities for processing into refined
which is an extensive network of pipelines
products or to domestic customers or export
that connects its key gas production and
terminals. In particular, Saudi Aramco’s
processing sites throughout the Kingdom.
mmboed East-West pipeline is critical in linking oil
Saudi Aramco expects to further expand its
production facilities in the Eastern Province
gas reserves through new field discoveries,
with Yanbu’ on the west coast, and providing
new reservoir additions in existing fields and
Hydrocarbon production, including flexibility to export from the east and west
delineation and reassessment of existing
crude oil production of 9.9 mmbpd coasts of the Kingdom.
reservoirs and fields.
The spare capacity afforded Shaybah plant
by maintaining MSC
enables Saudi Aramco
to increase its crude oil
production above planned
levels rapidly in response to
changes in global crude oil
supply and demand
ygetarts
dna
weivrevo
ssenisub
[Page 29]
27
Downstream
Saudi Aramco has a large, strategically
integrated global downstream business.
The Downstream segment’s activities consist
primarily of refining and petrochemical
manufacturing, supply and trading, distribution
and power generation. The strategic integration
of Saudi Aramco’s Upstream and Downstream
segments provides an opportunity for
Saudi Aramco to secure crude oil demand
and capture incremental value from the oil
supply chain by selling to its dedicated system
of domestic and international wholly owned
and affiliated refineries. This crude placement
provides significant benefits to Saudi Aramco’s
downstream operations, including a secure
and reliable supply of high-quality crude oil,
which helps to ensure a secure and reliable
supply of refined products to its downstream
customers.
Sadara Chemical
The Downstream segment’s other business Company
activities include base oils, lubricants and
retail operations. half of 2020. Post acquisition, Saudi Aramco’s
chemicals business will operate in over
Saudi Aramco’s downstream business is 50 countries and will produce a range of
the single largest customer for the Upstream chemicals, including ethylene, ethylene
segment’s crude oil production, consuming glycol, ethylene oxide, methanol, MTBE,
38% of its crude oil production in 2019. polyethylene and engineering plastics and
Saudi Aramco’s upstream business produces their derivatives, among other products.
all the crude oil supplied to and processed by Saudi Aramco believes that purchasing
Saudi Aramco’s wholly owned and affiliated a majority interest in SABIC will advance
refineries in the Kingdom and the majority its strategy to increase the proportion of Following the closing of
of crude oil used by its international wholly petrochemicals production in Saudi Aramco’s
owned and affiliated refineries. downstream portfolio and support its the proposed acquisition
downstream growth ambitions.
of the PIF’s 70% equity
Saudi Aramco’s refining operations in the
Kingdom, including its domestic affiliates Saudi Aramco’s Downstream segment interest in SABIC,
and local distribution system, provide includes its crude oil and product sales,
Saudi Aramco unique access to the large distribution and trading platforms. These Saudi Aramco’s chemicals
domestic marketplace to which it is the sole platforms support Saudi Aramco’s upstream
supplier. In addition to its domestic focus, and downstream operations by enabling business will operate in over
Saudi Aramco is focusing its downstream it to optimize crude oil sales and product
investments in areas of high growth, placement through its significant infrastructure 50 countries and produce
including China, India and Southeast Asia, network of pipelines and terminals and
a range of chemicals
material demand centers such as the United access to shipping and logistics resources.
States, and countries that rely on importing
crude oil, such as Japan and South Korea. Corporate
Saudi Aramco’s corporate activities primarily
Saudi Aramco also has an integrated
support its Upstream and Downstream
petrochemicals business within its
segments, as well as the overall business. The
Downstream segment, which enables
corporate activities include technical services
it to capture incremental margin in the
that are essential to the success of Saudi
hydrocarbon value chain. Saudi Aramco’s
Aramco’s core business, as well as human
chemicals business spans from production of
resources, finance, legal and corporate affairs.
basic chemicals such as aromatics, olefins and
polyolefins to more complex products such
Saudi Aramco’s commitment to good
as polyols, isocyanates and synthetic rubber.
governance and leadership is at the core of
how it operates, which includes sustainability
The proposed acquisition of the PIF’s 70%
and research and development (Section 4:
equity interest in SABIC recently received
ESG), risk management (Section 5: Risk) and
unconditional clearance in all jurisdictions in
corporate governance (Section 6: Corporate
which pre-notification antitrust filings were
governance).
required and is expected to close in the first
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 30]
28
Market overview
Global Domestic
Following a period of substantial economic Following economic growth in 2018 of 2.4%,
growth from 2016-2018, the global economy reflecting rising activity in both the oil and
in 2019 showed signs of an economic non-oil sectors, the Kingdom’s growth was
slowdown. In particular, the ongoing trade subdued in 2019, mainly due to a contraction
war between the U.S. and China has had of oil revenues. According to the General
a detrimental effect on global trade. The Authority for Statistics (GSTAT), the
economic growth rate for 2019 is estimated Kingdom’s GDP is reported to have grown
to be 2.9% compared to 3.6% in 2018, as by 0.3% in 2019.
per IMF’s latest World Economic Outlook
release. Domestic energy demand in 2019 remained
essentially unchanged at 4.7 mmboed,
According to the International Energy following a drop of 1.6% for the year ended
Agency (IEA) January 2020 Oil Market December 31, 2018 in the wake of sharp
Report, global oil demand is estimated to increases in gasoline and household
have grown by 1.0 mmbpd in 2019 reaching electricity prices. In terms of energy sources,
٦٤
100.3 mmbpd. Global oil supply is estimated natural gas remained the largest energy
to have averaged 100.3 mmbpd in 2019, source in 2019, accounting for almost 36%
$ per the IEA. Thus markets were roughly in of the overall primary energy mix and around
/bbl
balance in 2019. 55% of the power generation and desalination
sectors’ fuel mix.
Brent crude oil price averaged $64/bbl Brent crude oil price averaged $64/bbl in
in 2019, approximately 11% lower than 2019, approximately 11% lower than the
the average of $72/bbl in 2018 average of $72/bbl in 2018.
ygetarts
dna
weivrevo
ssenisub
[Page 31]
29
Strategy
1
Saudi Aramco’s vision is to be the
world’s preeminent integrated energy Maintain its position as the world’s leading crude oil
and chemicals company, operating in producer by production volume and the lowest
a safe, sustainable and reliable manner. cost producer, while providing reliable, low carbon
Saudi Aramco strives to provide its intensity crude oil supply to customers
shareholders with resilient value creation
through crude oil price cycles by
maintaining its preeminence in oil and
gas production, capturing additional
value across the hydrocarbon value chain
See page 30 for more detail.
and profitably growing its portfolio.
Saudi Aramco’s strategy aims to reinforce 2 3
its competitive positions across its
upstream and downstream operations. Capture value from Expand gas activities
further strategic in the Kingdom and
integration and internationally
diversification of
its operations
See page 31 for more detail. See page 31 for more detail.
4 5
Expand global Efficiently allocate
recognition of Saudi capital and maintain
Aramco’s brands a prudent and flexible
balance sheet
See page 32 for more detail. See page 32 for more detail.
6 7
Operate sustainably Deliver sustainable
by leveraging and growing dividends
technology and through crude oil
innovation price cycles
See page 33 for more detail. See page 33 for more detail.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 32]
30
1
Strategy
Maintain its position as the world’s leading crude oil
producer by production volume and the lowest cost
producer, while providing reliable, low carbon intensity
crude oil supply to customers
Saudi Aramco intends to maintain its position The spare capacity afforded by maintaining
as the world’s leading crude oil producer by MSC provides operational flexibility to
production volume. Its reserves, operational respond rapidly to changes in global crude oil
capabilities and spare capacity allow it to supply and demand. Though Saudi Aramco
increase production in response to demand. has a robust field maintenance philosophy
Saudi Aramco maintains its desired level of that emphasizes the reliability of its upstream
crude oil production by balancing production operations, MSC also provides an alternative
between maturing areas and newer supply option in the event of unplanned
Saudi Aramco’s vision
production sources, tapping into new production outages at any field.
reservoirs when required to optimize the
is to be the world’s
depletion rate of its fields. Saudi Aramco also Moreover, Saudi Aramco utilizes term
preeminent integrated maintains its low cost position due to the agreements for selling crude oil to major
unique nature of the Kingdom’s geological consumers globally. These agreements
energy and chemicals formations, favorable onshore and shallow provide supply predictability to customers
water offshore environments in which Saudi by standardizing price and delivery terms
company, operating Aramco’s reservoirs are located, synergies to major regional demand centers. Saudi
available from Saudi Aramco’s use of its large Aramco continues to invest in and develop
in a safe, sustainable
infrastructure and logistics networks, low a sophisticated and extensive crude oil
depletion rate operational model and scaled distribution and dispatch system, which
and reliable manner
application of technology. maintains Saudi Aramco’s supply reliability.
In addition, Saudi Aramco seeks to maintain Moreover, Saudi Aramco seeks to preserve
its position as one of the world’s most the low carbon intensity of its crude oil
reliable crude oil suppliers. The Saudi Arabian production, which places it among the
Government determines the Kingdom’s world’s least carbon intense sources of
maximum level of crude oil production in crude oil.
the exercise of its sovereign prerogative and
requires Saudi Aramco to maintain MSC
in accordance with the Hydrocarbons Law.
ygetarts
dna
weivrevo
ssenisub
[Page 33]
31
2 3
Capture value from further Expand gas activities in the
strategic integration and Kingdom and internationally
diversification of its operations
Saudi Aramco intends to continue the Saudi Aramco plans to expand its gas
strategic integration of its upstream and business to meet large and growing
downstream businesses to facilitate the domestic demand for low-cost clean energy
placement of its crude oil in larger offtake by increasing production and investing
volumes through a dedicated system of in additional infrastructure. This demand
domestic and international wholly owned is driven by power generation, water
and affiliated refineries. This integration also desalination, petrochemical production and
allows Saudi Aramco to capture additional other industrial consumption in the Kingdom.
value across the hydrocarbon chain, expand Saudi Aramco’s gas production also yields
its sources of earnings and provide resilience NGLs (including ethane) and condensate,
to oil price volatility. For example, the which supplement its crude oil production
proposed acquisition of a 70% equity interest and provide feedstock to the refining and
in SABIC supports the significant expansion petrochemical industries. Furthermore,
of Saudi Aramco’s downstream activities, Saudi Aramco seeks over time to develop
particularly in its chemicals business, and an integrated global gas portfolio and
provides additional opportunities for Saudi is pursuing investment and joint venture
Aramco to supply mixed feedstock of crude opportunities outside the Kingdom in
oil, refinery products and gas to manufacture natural gas and LNG projects.
petrochemicals products.
In addition, the integration of Saudi Aramco’s
Upstream and Downstream segments
provides a unique opportunity for Saudi
Aramco to secure crude oil demand by
selling to refineries designed specifically
to economically process Arabian crude oil.
Furthermore, Saudi Aramco intends to
enhance its domestic and global marketing
businesses to support the position of its
upstream business in key, high-growth
geographies, including China, India and
Southeast Asia, which are integral to
Saudi Aramco’s existing business and future
expansion strategy. Moreover, Saudi Aramco
intends to maintain its presence in key large
countries, such as the United States, and in
countries that rely on importing crude oil,
such as Japan and South Korea.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 34]
32
4 5
Expand global recognition Efficiently allocate capital
of Saudi Aramco’s brands and maintain a prudent
and flexible balance sheet
Saudi Aramco intends to expand global Saudi Aramco has a comprehensive and
recognition of its brands in the energy sector. disciplined internal approval process for
One aspect of this strategy is to introduce its capital expenditures, new projects and
brands to existing domestic and international debt incurrence. It analyzes future projects
marketing businesses, including at retail based on strategic, operational, commercial
service stations, and further develop its and financial targets. Saudi Aramco’s unique
petrochemicals and base oil brands. In reserves and resource base, operational
addition, as new marketing activities are flexibility, field management and strong cash
added to its business portfolio, Saudi Aramco flow generation serve as a foundation for its
intends to use its own brands and thereby low gearing and flexibility to allocate capital.
build recognition of its position as a leader
in the global energy sector.
One aspect of
Saudi Aramco’s strategy
is to introduce its brands
to existing domestic and
international marketing
businesses, including
at retail service stations,
and further develop
its petrochemicals and
base oil brands
ygetarts
dna
weivrevo
ssenisub
[Page 35]
33
6 7
Operate sustainably by Deliver sustainable
leveraging technology and growing dividends
and innovation through crude oil price cycles
Saudi Aramco’s climate change strategy aims Saudi Aramco intends to deliver sustainable
to grow its business sustainably by leveraging and growing dividends to its shareholders
technology and innovation to lower its through crude oil price cycles. Saudi
climate impact. Saudi Aramco intends to Aramco’s fiscal discipline is demonstrated
maintain its position as a leader in Scope 1 through the ability of executing on its
upstream carbon intensity, with one of the strategic growth objectives and the timely
lowest carbon footprints per unit of and cost-effective delivery of capital projects.
hydrocarbons produced. It is also pursuing A prudent capital structure and rigorous
a wide range of initiatives to further lower capital allocation processes and investment
its carbon intensity. For example, Saudi thresholds enable Saudi Aramco to generate
Aramco’s natural gas program is increasing significant operating cash flows.
the percentage of gas used to meet the
Kingdom’s energy needs. Saudi Aramco
Refer to Section 6: Corporate governance for
is also collaborating with other major further detail.
companies to share best practices and
devise common solutions to climate change,
including through participation in the Oil
and Gas Climate Initiative forum.
Refer to Section 4: ESG for further detail.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 38]
36
Financial highlights
Net income EBIT* Earnings per share Net cash provided by
(billion) (billion) (basic and diluted) operating activities
(billion)
331 667 1.65 417
SAR SAR SAR SAR
$88 $178 $0.44 $111
(2018: $111) (2018: $213) (2018: $0.55) (2018: $121)
Capital expenditures Free cash flow* Average realized ROACE*
(billion) (billion) crude oil price (%)
($/barrel)
123 294 64.6 28.4
SAR SAR
$33 $78
(2018: $35) (2018: $86) (2018: 70.0) (2018: 41.1)
Gearing* Dividend paid
(%) (billion)
-0.2 274
SAR
$73
(2018: -8.6) (2018: $58)
* N on-IFRS measure: refer to “Non-IFRS measures reconciliations and definitions” for further detail.
ecnamrofrep
dna
stluser
[Page 39]
37
Operational highlights Unrivalled profitability
Saudi Aramco delivered solid earnings and
strong cash flows through consistent
operational performance, cost management
Hydrocarbon production Crude oil production1 MSC and fiscal discipline.
(mmboed) (mmbpd) (mmbpd)
Saudi Aramco’s preeminence in upstream
13.2 9.9 12.0 remains the cornerstone of its business,
positioning Saudi Aramco as not only the
world’s leading crude oil producer by
(2018: 13.6) (2018: 10.3) (2018: 12.0) production volume, but also the lowest cost
producer, one of the most reliable crude oil
suppliers, and among the world’s least
carbon intense sources of crude oil.
Gross refining capacity Reliability2 Total recordable case
(mmbpd) (%) (TRC) frequency3
In the downstream business, Saudi Aramco
(per 200,000 work hours)
continued to make solid progress towards
6.4 99.2 0.059 its long-term strategic goal of increasing its
global gross refining capacity.
(2018: 4.9) (2018: 99.8) (2018: 0.056)
Upstream carbon Flaring intensity3
intensity3 (scf/boe)
(kg of C0e/boe)
2
10.1 5.54
(2018: 10.2) (2018: 5.77)
1. I ncludes blended condensate and excludes the Kingdom of Bahrain’s entitlement
to volumes produced from the Abu Sa’fah field.
2. The Company.
3. In-Kingdom wholly owned operated assets.
Saudi Aramco’s performance
is driven by operational
excellence and is
underpinned by strong
fiscal discipline, risk
management and its
governance framework
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 40]
38
CFO’s
message
In 2019, Saudi Aramco delivered
unrivalled profitability, strong cash flows
and a robust financial position
It is with great pride that I take this For 2019, Saudi Aramco’s net income was
opportunity to reflect on the many SAR 331 billion ($88 billion) and free cash
milestones that Saudi Aramco achieved in flow was SAR 294 billion ($78 billion).
2019. These include signing a share purchase Compared to 2018, capital expenditure
agreement to acquire a majority stake in was SAR 9 billion ($2 billion) lower. These
SABIC and completing Saudi Aramco’s unmatched financial results were achieved
inaugural international bond issuance and in the context of a lower price environment
its record breaking IPO. Together, they and challenging refining and chemicals
mark out the year as truly transformational margins. This strong performance supported
for the world’s most valuable company total dividend payments of SAR 274 billion
by market capitalization. ($73 billion) during the year.
In 2019, Saudi Aramco and its people were The past year was full of exceptional
also tested by attacks on some of its oil achievements and Saudi Aramco is set to
and gas facilities. With a rapid return to continue along the path laid down by this
full operations and no material impact on momentous year.
Saudi Aramco‘s unmatched the 2019 financial results, Saudi Aramco
displayed exceptional resilience and its ability
financial results were to maintain a reliable supply of crude oil Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh
to its customers. Senior Vice President,
achieved in the context of Finance, Strategy & Development
In a year marked by historic achievements,
a lower price environment
Saudi Aramco delivered unrivalled profitability,
strong cash flows and a robust financial
and challenging refining
position. This level of performance is driven
and chemicals margins.” by our operational excellence and is
underpinned by our strong fiscal discipline,
risk management and governance framework,
which focuses on financial performance and
ensures that established targets for dividends,
capital expenditures, and gearing levels
are met.
In addition, leveraging innovation and
our advanced technologies further our
competitive advantages while also supporting
Saudi Aramco’s environmental objective of
maintaining its low upstream carbon intensity.
ecnamrofrep
dna
stluser
[Page 41]
39
financial
performance
Discussion of the most significant factors
that have impacted Saudi Aramco’s
financial position and results of operations
for the year ended December 31, 2019
The financial information of Saudi Aramco In the Kingdom, the Government regulates Sales of crude oil and
set forth below as at December 31, 2018 and the oil and gas industry and establishes the
refined products are
2019 and for the years then ended has been Kingdom’s maximum level of hydrocarbon
derived without material adjustment from, production in the exercise of its sovereign
the largest components
and is qualified in its entirety by, the Financial prerogative. Accordingly, the Government
Statements contained in Section 7: may in its sole discretion increase or decrease of Saudi Aramco’s
Consolidated Financial Statements. It should the Kingdom’s maximum hydrocarbon
be read in conjunction with the Financial production at any time based on its strategic consolidated revenue
Statements, Section 5: Risk, and other energy security goals or for any other reason.
financial data included elsewhere in this Therefore, Saudi Aramco’s results of and other income
Annual Report. operations may depend in part on sovereign
related to sales
decisions with respect to production levels
Key factors affecting Saudi that are made by the Government.
Aramco’s financial results
Crude oil is also a major component of
The following is a discussion of the
the cost of production of refined products
most significant factors that have impacted
and chemicals that use hydrocarbons
Saudi Aramco’s financial position and
as feedstock.
results of operations for the year ended
December 31, 2019.
Accordingly, Saudi Aramco’s results of
operations and cash flows are significantly
Supply, demand and price for
impacted by market prices and the volumes
hydrocarbons and refined products
sold of hydrocarbons and refined products.
Saudi Aramco’s financial results are primarily
driven by its sales of hydrocarbons and
Key acquisitions
refined products, which are dependent
On December 31, 2018, Saudi Aramco
on global supply and demand, and market
purchased the 50% equity interest of
prices. Sales of crude oil and refined products
ARLANXEO Holding B.V. (ARLANXEO) from
are the largest components of Saudi Aramco’s
LANXESS Deutschland GmbH (LANXESS)
consolidated revenue and other income
that it did not already own, which led to
related to sales.
Saudi Aramco fully consolidating ARLANXEO
onto its balance sheet from December 31,
Other income related to sales represents
2018 and its results of operations from
compensation from the Government for
January 1, 2019. Prior to the full acquisition,
revenue directly forgone as a result of Saudi
Saudi Aramco’s stake in ARLANXEO was
Aramco’s compliance with local regulations
accounted for as an investment in associate.
governing domestic sales and distribution of
certain products. This compensation is
On September 18, 2019, Saudi Aramco
calculated as the difference between the
acquired Shell’s 50% equity interest in
products’ equalization prices (which are
Saudi Aramco Shell Refining Company
determined using reported regional prices)
(SASREF) that it did not already own, and
and the corresponding domestic regulated
fully consolidated the business from the date
prices, net of Government fees.
of acquisition. Prior to the acquisition,
Saudi Aramco reflected its stake in SASREF
as a joint operation.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 42]
40 All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated
331
On October 31, 2019, Motiva, a wholly Recent fiscal regime changes
owned subsidiary, acquired a 100% equity
In 2019, the Government made the
S AR bn interest in Flint Hills Resources Port Arthur,
following changes to the fiscal regime
LLC (Flint Hills) and fully consolidated the
under which the Company operates:
business from the date of acquisition.
Net income for the year ended Subsequent to the acquisition, Flint Hills • The Government adopted regulations
December 31, 2019 was renamed to Motiva Chemicals LLC. regarding the manner in which the
Company is compensated for gas sold
On December 17, 2019, Saudi Aramco also domestically in the Kingdom. The
acquired a 17% equity interest in Hyundai Company will be compensated by the
Oilbank from Hyundai Heavy Industries Government for revenue directly forgone
Holdings (HHIH), with an option to acquire as a consequence of domestically
an additional 2.9% equity interest within supplying Regulated Gas Products in the
five years of the closing date. This acquisition event that Government-established prices
was accounted for as an investment in do not meet the relevant price determined
associate and the purchase price was fully to achieve the rate of return approved by
paid before year end. the Government for the Company’s gas
projects (effective as at September 17, 2019);
Other acquisitions during the year did not
• The Company and the Government
have a significant impact on Saudi Aramco’s
executed an amendment to the
2019 financial performance.
Concession, which (effective as at
January 1, 2020):
Adoption of IFRS 16
Saudi Aramco adopted IFRS 16, Leases, on (i) r educes the royalty rate on crude oil
January 1, 2019. This adoption impacts the and condensate production to 15%
accounting treatment of operating expenses, (from 20%) on Brent prices up to
financing costs, current and non-current $70/barrel;
liabilities, net cash used in financing activities,
( ii) i ncreases the marginal royalty rate
net cash from operating activities and
to 45% (from 40%) on Brent prices
property, plant and equipment and related
above $70/barrel up to $100/barrel;
depreciation, in addition to ROACE, free cash
and
flow and gearing.
(iii) i ncreases the marginal royalty rate
Issuance of Senior Unsecured Notes to 80% (from 50%) on Brent prices
On April 16, 2019, the Company issued above $100/barrel;
a series of USD Senior Unsecured Notes
• The Government determined that the
(Senior Unsecured Notes) aggregating
tax rate applicable to the Company’s
SAR 45,000 ($12,000). Interest is payable
downstream business will be changed
semi-annually on April 16 and October 16.
from the 50% to 85% multi-tiered
The notes are listed on the London Stock
structure of income tax applicable to
Exchange’s Regulated Market. At initial
domestic oil and hydrocarbon production
recognition, the Company recorded an
companies to the general corporate tax
amount of SAR 44,460 ($11,856) for the
rate of 20% applicable to similar domestic
issuance proceeds, net of discounts and
downstream companies under the Income
estimated transaction costs.
Tax Law, on the condition that the
Company consolidates its downstream
Sadara impairment
business under the control of one or
During the year ended December 31, 2019,
more separate, wholly owned subsidiaries
the management of Sadara identified certain
before December 31, 2024 (effective as
indicators of impairment, which required
at January 1, 2020); and
a detailed impairment assessment of
Sadara’s long-lived assets. As a result of • The period for which the Company will
the assessment, Sadara recognized an not be obligated to pay royalties on
impairment loss of SAR 9,225 ($2,460) for condensate production was extended for
the year ended December 31, 2019 of which an additional ten years after the current
Saudi Aramco’s share is SAR 5,996 ($1,599). five-year period ending on January 1, 2023,
and may be further extended for
subsequent 10-year periods, unless the
Government determines the economics
impacting gas field development do not
warrant such an extension (effective as
at January 1, 2023).
ecnamrofrep
dna
stluser
[Page 43]
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated
Summarized consolidated statement of income
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 2019 2018 2019 2018 % change
Operating income 674,871 798,405 179,966 212,908 (15.5)%
Share of results of joint ventures and associates (9,455) (1,415) (2,521) (377) 568.2%
Finance and other income 7,351 3,865 1,960 1,030 90.2%
Finance costs (6,026) (2,959) (1,607) (789) 103.6%
Income before income taxes 666,741 797,896 177,798 212,772 (16.4)%
Income taxes (336,048) (381,378) (89,613) (101,701) (11.9)%
Net income 330,693 416,518 88,185 111,071 (20.6)%
Average realized crude oil price ($/barrel) 64.6 70.0 (7.7)%
ROACE** 28.4% 41.1% 28.4% 41.1% (12.7) pp
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
** Refer to “Non-IFRS measures reconciliations and definitions” below for further detail.
Income vs. realized crude price Financial results Income taxes
Despite a lower oil price environment during The charge for income taxes was
2019, Saudi Aramco delivered solid earnings SAR 336,048 ($89,613) in 2019 compared
and strong cash flows combined with reliable to SAR 381,378 ($101,701) in 2018. The
operational performance. decrease mainly reflects the lower level of
$ millions $/barrel profit in 2019, partially offset by the deferred
Net income for the year ended December 31, tax impact of the fiscal regime changes in
300,000 70
2019 was SAR 330,693 ($88,185), compared both years.
250,000 65 to SAR 416,518 ($111,071) in 2018,
a decrease of SAR 85,825 ($22,886). This
200,000
60 decrease was primarily due to lower crude oil
150,000 prices, coupled with declining refining and
55 chemical margins, and an increase in Saudi
100,000 Aramco’s share of losses of joint ventures and
50 associates, principally due to an impairment
50,000
charge recognized by Sadara.
0 45
2018 2019 Operating costs increased by SAR 13,302
($3,547), or 2.4%, from 548,612 ($146,296)
Operating income
to SAR 561,914 ($149,843), for the years
Net income
ended December 31, 2018 and 2019,
Average crude realized price
respectively. This reflects an increase in
purchases, producing and manufacturing,
selling, administrative and general, and
depreciation and amortization costs, partially
offset by a decrease in royalties and other
taxes, and exploration costs. Research and
development costs remained broadly stable
year-on-year.
809,212
70
64.6
170,111
669,971
581,88
41
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
674,871 | 798,405
(1,415)
3,865
(2,959) |  | 179,966
(9,455) |  |  | (2,521)
7,351 |  |  | 1,960
(6,026) |  |  | (1,607)
666,741 | 797,896
(381,378) |  | 177,798
(336,048) |  |  | (89,613)
330,693 | 416,518
41.1% |  | 88,185
|  |  |
|  |  | 64.6
28.4% |  |  | 28.4%
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
809, |  |  | 669 |
|  |  |  |
212 | 170, |  | ,971 |
|  |  |  | 58
| 111 |  |  | 1,88
[Page 44]
42 All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated
Summarized consolidated balance sheet
SAR USD*
As at December 31 As at December 31
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 2019 2018 2019 2018 % change
Total assets 1,494,126 1,346,892 398,434 359,171 10.9%
Total liabilities 447,891 318,457 119,438 84,922 40.6%
Significant balance sheet movements:
Property, plant and equipment1 982,014 873,827 261,870 233,021 12.4%
Short-term investments 45,467 194 12,125 52 >100%
Borrowings (non-current and current)1 175,585 101,318 46,823 27,018 73.3%
Deferred income tax liabilities 44,471 23,877 11,859 6,367 86.3%
Dividend payable 35,475 – 9,460 – n/a
Gearing** (0.2)% (8.6)% (0.2)% (8.6)% +8.4 pp
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
** Refer to “Non-IFRS measures reconciliations and definitions” below for further detail.
1. S audi Aramco adopted IFRS 16 on January 1, 2019 using a modified retrospective approach. As a result, in the preparation of the 2019 financial statements, Saudi Aramco applied prospectively,
starting January 1, 2019, the new classification and measurement models for lease contracts and consequently 2018 comparative information was not restated.
Financial position
Total assets were SAR 1,494,126 ($398,434) Total liabilities were SAR 447,891
as at December 31, 2019, compared to ($119,438) at December 31, 2019, compared
SAR 1,346,892 ($359,171) as at December 31, to SAR 318,457 ($84,922) at December 31,
2018. This increase was mainly attributable to 2018. This increase was primarily due to
an increase in property, plant and equipment higher borrowings, deferred income tax
and short-term investments. liabilities and dividend payable.
The increase in property, plant and The increase in borrowings (current and
equipment primarily reflects additions from non-current) mainly reflects the issuance
capital expenditures incurred during the of the Senior Unsecured Notes and the
year, the acquisitions of SASREF and Motiva recognition of additional lease liabilities
Chemicals LLC (previously Flint Hills), and the upon the adoption of IFRS 16.
recognition of right-of-use assets upon the
adoption of IFRS 16. Deferred income tax liabilities, which
reflect the impact of temporary differences
The increase in short-term investments was between the amount of assets and liabilities
driven by the investment of cash receipts recognized for accounting purposes and
following the issuance of the Senior Unsecured their tax bases, increased predominantly due
Notes in April 2019. to temporary differences related to property,
plant and equipment and the impact of the
recent fiscal regime changes.
The dividend payable at December 31, 2019
represents an ordinary dividend declared in
December 2019, prior to the IPO date, and
paid to the Government in January 2020.
ecnamrofrep
dna
stluser
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
1,494,126 | 1,346,892
318,457
873,827
194
101,318
23,877
–
(8.6)% |  | 398,434
447,891 |  |  | 119,438
|  |  |
|  |  |
982,014 |  |  | 261,870
45,467 |  |  | 12,125
|  |  |
175,585 |  |  | 46,823
44,471 |  |  | 11,859
35,475 |  |  | 9,460
(0.2)% |  |  | (0.2)%
[Page 45]
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated
Summarized consolidated statement of cash flows
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 2019 2018 2019 2018 % change
Net cash provided by operating activities 416,529 453,701 111,074 120,987 (8.2)%
Net cash used in investing activities (177,144) (131,205) (47,239) (34,988) 35.0%
Net cash used in financing activities (244,831) (220,586) (65,288) (58,823) 11.0%
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 177,706 183,152 47,388 48,841 (3.0)%
Capital expenditures (122,882) (131,766) (32,769) (35,138) (6.7)%
Free cash flow** 293,647 321,935 78,305 85,849 (8.8)%
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
** Refer to “Non-IFRS measures reconciliations and definitions” below for further detail.
Cash flows Cash flows
Net cash provided by operating activities Net cash used in financing activities
was SAR 416,529 ($111,074) for the year was SAR 244,831 ($65,288) in 2019
ended December 31, 2019, a decrease of compared with SAR 220,586 ($58,823)
$ millions
SAR 37,172 ($9,913) compared to SAR in 2018. This increase was primarily due
140,000 453,701 ($120,987) reported in 2018. This to higher dividends, interest paid and debt
principally reflects the impact of a lower oil repayments (including the impact of change
120,000
price environment, partially offset by favorable in classification of lease rentals to financing
100,000 movements in working capital, lower activities upon the adoption of IFRS 16),
payments for income and other taxes and as well as cash paid for the purchase of
80,000
the change in classification of lease rentals treasury shares for use in connection with
60,000 to financing activities upon the adoption the Saudi Aramco Share Plan for employee
of IFRS 16. compensation. The increase was partially
40,000 offset by net proceeds from the issuance of
Net cash used in investing activities Senior Unsecured Notes.
20,000
was SAR 177,144 ($47,239) for the year
0 ended December 31, 2019, compared with
2018 2019 SAR 131,205 ($34,988) in 2018. This increase
of SAR 45,939 ($12,251) mainly reflects the
Net cash provided by operating activities
investment of cash receipts following the
Capital expenditures
issuance of the Senior Unsecured Notes
Free cash flow
and an increase in cash paid for acquisitions,
partially offset by lower capital expenditures.
Non-IFRS measures reconciliations and definitions
This Annual Report includes certain non-IFRS Saudi Aramco uses non-IFRS financial in this Annual Report and are not intended
financial measures, including ROACE, free measures as supplementary information to be predictive of future results. In addition,
cash flow, gearing and EBIT, which Saudi to its IFRS based operating performance other companies, including those in
Aramco uses in the analysis of its business and financial position. The non-IFRS financial Saudi Aramco’s industry, may calculate
and financial position. measures are not defined by, or presented similarly titled non-IFRS financial measures
in accordance with, IFRS. The non-IFRS differently from Saudi Aramco. Because
These non-IFRS financial measures have been financial measures are not measurements companies do not necessarily calculate these
included in this Report to facilitate a better of Saudi Aramco’s operating performance non-IFRS financial measures in the same
understanding of Saudi Aramco’s historic or liquidity under IFRS and should not be manner, Saudi Aramco’s presentation of
trends of operation and financial position. used instead of, or considered as alternatives such non-IFRS financial measures may not be
to, any measures of performance or liquidity comparable to other similarly titled non-IFRS
under IFRS. The non-IFRS financial measures financial measures used by other companies.
relate to the reporting periods described
789,021
831,53
948,58
470,111
967,23
503,87
43
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
416,529 | 453,701
(131,205)
(220,586)
183,152
(131,766)
321,935 |  | 111,074
(177,144) |  |  | (47,239)
(244,831) |  |  | (65,288)
177,706 |  |  | 47,388
|  |  |
(122,882) |  |  | (32,769)
293,647 |  |  | 78,305
| 831, |  |  |
|  |  |  | 9
| 53 |  |  | 67,23
|  |  |  |
789, |  |  | 47 |
021 | 948, |  | 0,111 | 503,
| 58 |  |  | 87
|  |  |  |
[Page 46]
44 All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated
ROACE
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 2019 2018 2019 2018
Net income 330,693 416,518 88,185 111,071
Finance costs, net of tax 3,013 1,480 804 395
Net income before finance costs, net of tax 333,706 417,998 88,989 111,466
As at period start (January 1):
Non-current borrowings 71,329 68,692 19,021 18,318
Current borrowings 29,989 8,906 7,997 2,375
Total equity 1,028,435 826,314 274,249 220,350
Capital employed 1,129,753 903,912 301,267 241,043
As at period end (December 31):
Non-current borrowings 150,690 71,329 40,184 19,021
Current borrowings 24,895 29,989 6,639 7,997
Total equity 1,046,235 1,028,435 278,996 274,249
Capital employed 1,221,820 1,129,753 325,819 301,267
Average capital employed 1,175,787 1,016,833 313,543 271,155
ROACE 28.4% 41.1% 28.4% 41.1%
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
ROACE measures the efficiency of Saudi period. Saudi Aramco utilizes ROACE to prices, coupled with declining refining and
Aramco’s utilization of capital. Saudi Aramco evaluate management’s performance and chemical margins, and higher borrowings
defines ROACE as net income before finance demonstrate to its shareholders that capital resulting from the issuance of the Senior
costs, net of tax, for a period as a percentage has been used effectively. Unsecured Notes and the recognition of
of average capital employed during that additional lease liabilities upon the adoption
period. Average capital employed is the ROACE decreased from 41.1% in 2018 to of IFRS 16 in 2019.
average of total borrowings plus total equity 28.4% in 2019. This was due to lower net
at the beginning and end of the applicable income, principally driven by lower crude oil
Free cash flow
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 2019 2018 2019 2018
Net cash provided by operating activities 416,529 453,701 111,074 120,987
Capital expenditures (122,882) (131,766) (32,769) (35,138)
Free cash flow 293,647 321,935 78,305 85,849
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
Saudi Aramco uses free cash flow to evaluate Free cash flow decreased from SAR 321,935 refining and chemical margins, partially offset
its cash available for financing activities, ($85,849) in 2018 to SAR 293,647 ($78,305) by the change in classification of lease rentals
including dividend payments. Saudi Aramco in 2019, a decrease of SAR 28,288 ($7,544), from operating activities to financing
defines free cash flow as net cash provided or 8.8%. This was mainly driven by lower activities upon the adoption of IFRS 16
by operating activities less capital expenditures. operating cash flow, resulting from lower and a decrease in capital expenditures of
crude oil prices, coupled with declining SAR 8,884 ($2,369).
ecnamrofrep
dna
stluser
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
330,693 | 416,518
1,480 |  | 88,185
3,013 |  |  | 804
333,706 | 417,998 |  | 88,989
| 68,692
8,906
826,314 |  |
|  |  |
71,329 |  |  | 19,021
29,989 |  |  | 7,997
1,028,435 |  |  | 274,249
1,129,753 | 903,912 |  | 301,267
| 71,329
29,989
1,028,435 |  |
150,690 |  |  | 40,184
24,895 |  |  | 6,639
1,046,235 |  |  | 278,996
1,221,820 | 1,129,753 |  | 325,819
| 1,016,833 |  |
1,175,787 |  |  | 313,543
28.4% | 41.1% |  | 28.4%
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
416,529 | 453,701
(131,766) |  | 111,074
(122,882) |  |  | (32,769)
293,647 | 321,935 |  | 78,305
[Page 47]
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 45
Gearing
SAR USD*
As at December 31 As at December 31
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 2019 2018 2019 2018
Total borrowings (current and non-current) 175,585 101,318 46,823 27,018
Cash and cash equivalents (177,706) (183,152) (47,388) (48,841)
Net cash (2,121) (81,834) (565) (21,823)
Total equity 1,046,235 1,028,435 278,996 274,249
Total equity and net cash 1,044,114 946,601 278,431 252,426
Gearing (0.2)% (8.6)% (0.2)% (8.6)%
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
Gearing is a measure of the degree to which Saudi Aramco’s gearing ratio increased from
Saudi Aramco’s operations are financed by (8.6)% as at December 31, 2018 to (0.2)%
debt. Saudi Aramco defines gearing as the as at December 31, 2019 (net cash position at
ratio of total borrowings less cash and cash both year-ends). This was mainly attributable
equivalents to total borrowings less cash to an increase in total borrowings following
and cash equivalents plus total equity. the issuance of the Senior Unsecured Notes,
Management believes that gearing is widely the cash receipts of which were invested in
used by analysts and investors in the oil and short-term investments and not held within
gas industry to indicate a company’s financial cash and cash equivalent at period end, and
health and flexibility. the recognition of additional lease liabilities
upon the adoption of IFRS 16.
Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT)
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 2019 2018 2019 2018
Net income 330,693 416,518 88,185 111,071
Finance income (5,534) (2,840) (1,476) (757)
Finance costs 6,026 2,959 1,607 789
Income taxes 336,048 381,378 89,613 101,701
Earnings before interest and taxes 667,233 798,015 177,929 212,804
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
Saudi Aramco defines EBIT as net income EBIT for the year decreased by SAR 130,782
plus finance costs and income taxes, less ($34,875), or 16.4%, from SAR 798,015
finance income. Saudi Aramco believes EBIT ($212,804) to SAR 667,233 ($177,929) in
provides useful information regarding its 2018 and 2019, respectively. This was mainly
financial performance to analysts and attributable to lower crude oil prices, coupled
investors. with declining refining and chemical margins,
and an increase in Saudi Aramco’s share of
losses of JVs and associates, principally due to
an impairment charge recognized by Sadara.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
175,585 | 101,318
(183,152) |  | 46,823
(177,706) |  |  | (47,388)
(2,121) | (81,834)
1,028,435 |  | (565)
1,046,235 |  |  | 278,996
1,044,114 | 946,601 |  | 278,431
(0.2)% | (8.6)% |  | (0.2)%
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
330,693 | 416,518
(2,840)
2,959
381,378 |  | 88,185
(5,534) |  |  | (1,476)
6,026 |  |  | 1,607
336,048 |  |  | 89,613
667,233 | 798,015 |  | 177,929
[Page 48]
46
upstream
Saudi Aramco’s Upstream segment
activities consist of exploring for, developing
and producing crude oil, condensate,
natural gas and NGLs
Upstream competitive
strengths
• Unrivalled scale of crude oil and
condensate production and conventional
proved reserves;
• Long reserves life, with long-term track
record of low-cost reserves replacement;
• Unique ability to capture value through
active management of the world’s largest
conventional hydrocarbons reserves base;
• Unique operational flexibility to respond
to changes in supply and demand;
• Multiple crude grades and global crude oil
delivery points;
• Extensive high-quality gas reserves with
exclusive access to the large and growing
domestic marketplace;
• Crude oil extraction with a low average
carbon intensity;
• Low lifting costs and capital expenditures
per barrel of oil equivalent; and
• Ability to execute some of the world’s
largest upstream capital projects.
ecnamrofrep
dna
stluser
[Page 49]
47
Key events in 2019 As at December 31, 2019, Saudi Aramco’s
reserves under the Concession agreement
• Safe restoration of operations after the
were 258.6 billion boe (2018: 256.9 billion boe),
attacks on Abqaiq, Khurais and Shaybah
including 201.9 billion barrels (2018: 201.4
facilities;
billion barrels) of crude oil and condensate,
• Commencement of work for both 25.7 billion barrels (2018: 25.4 billion barrels)
Marjan and Berri increment programs; of NGLs and 190.6 tscf (2018: 185.7 tscf)
of natural gas.
• Maintenance of MSC at 12.0 mmbpd
at year end December 31, 2019;
The Government determines the Kingdom’s
• Commencement of production at Fadhili maximum level of crude oil production
Gas Plant, which is on track to be fully in the exercise of its sovereign prerogative
operational in 2020; and requires Saudi Aramco to maintain MSC
in accordance with the Hydrocarbons Law.
• Issuance of independent third party Our upstream operations’
As at December 31, 2019 and 2018, the
certification letter for the reserves balances
as at December 31, 2018 by DeGolyer & MSC was 12.0 mmbpd of crude oil. The value creation is
spare capacity afforded by maintaining MSC
MacNaughton;
enables Saudi Aramco to increase its crude unmatched. In 2019 we
• Exploration successes with discoveries of oil production above planned levels rapidly
two new oil fields and one new gas field; in response to changes in global crude oil continued our long history
and supply and demand, as an alternative supply
of delivering enviable
option in case of unplanned production
• Total processing capacity of the
outages at any field and to maintain the
unconventional assets in North Arabia exploration successes and
production levels during routine field
reaching 400 mmscfd.
maintenance. reliable production, while
Overview
In 2019, Saudi Aramco maintained its we strategically invested
The Upstream segment’s activities consist position as one of the world’s leading
of exploring for, developing and producing producers of crude oil and condensate with in value adding projects
crude oil, condensate, natural gas and NGLs. an average total daily hydrocarbon production
Saudi Aramco manages the Kingdom’s of 13.2 mmboed (2018: 13.6 mmboed), for the future.”
unique reserves and resources base to including 9.9 mmbpd (2018: 10.3 mmbpd)
optimize production and maximize long-term of crude oil (including blended condensate
value pursuant to the Hydrocarbons Law, but excluding the Kingdom of Bahrain’s share Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani
which mandates that Saudi Aramco’s of volumes produced from the Abu Sa’fah Senior Vice President, Upstream
hydrocarbon operations promote long-term field). For the year ended December 31,
productivity of the Kingdom’s reservoirs 2019, approximately 85% (2018: 86%) of
and support the prudent stewardship of its the aggregate hydrocarbon production
hydrocarbon resources. consisted of liquids, which generally
command a higher margin.
As set out in the Concession, Saudi Aramco
has exclusive access to all hydrocarbons Saudi Aramco also maintained its position
within the Kingdom and its territorial waters, as one of the lowest cost producers globally
except the Excluded Areas. Under the for the year ended December 31, 2019.
Concession, Saudi Aramco is required to The average upstream lifting cost was
meet the domestic demand for certain SAR 10.6 ($2.8) per boe produced in both
hydrocarbons, petroleum products and LPG 2019 and 2018, while the upstream capital
through domestic production or imports. expenditures averaged SAR 17.5 ($4.7)
The Concession provides for an initial period (2018: SAR 17.7 ($4.7) per boe produced.
of 40 years, which will be extended by the The low-cost position is due to the unique
Government for 20 years provided that nature of the Kingdom’s geological
Saudi Aramco satisfies certain conditions formations, favorable onshore and shallow
commensurate with current operating water offshore environments in which
practices. In addition, the Concession may Saudi Aramco’s reservoirs are located,
be extended for an additional 40 years synergies available from the use of its
beyond the prior 60 year period subject to large infrastructure and logistics networks,
Saudi Aramco and the Government agreeing its low depletion rate operational model
on the terms of the extension. The provision and Saudi Aramco’s scaled application
of a specified term in the Concession impacts of technology.
the calculation of Saudi Aramco’s reserves
as compared to the Kingdom’s reserves in
the fields Saudi Aramco operates.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 50]
48 All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated
Upstream hydrocarbon production
Year ended December 31
2019 2018 % change
Crude oil1 (mbpd) 9,943 10,315 (3.6)%
Condensate (mbpd) 202 218 (7.3)%
Propane (mbpd) 535 565 (5.3)%
Butane (mbpd) 319 328 (2.7)%
Natural gasoline (mbpd) 222 203 9.4%
Total liquids (mbpd) 11,221 11,629 (3.5)%
Natural gas (mmscfd) 8,978 8,856 1.4%
Ethane (mmscfd) 960 993 (3.3)%
Total gas (mmscfd) 9,938 9,849 0.9%
Total hydrocarbon production2 (mboed) 13,172 13,567 (2.9)%
1. Includes blended condensate and excludes the Kingdom of Bahrain’s entitlement to volumes produced from the Abu Sa’fah field.
2. T otal hydrocarbon production (mboed) is derived from mmscfd (for natural gas and ethane) by dividing the relevant product production by 5.400 (in the case of natural gas) and 3.330 (in the case
of ethane).
Upstream financial results
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 2019 2018 2019 2018 % change
Revenue and other income related to sales
(including sales to other segments) 970,395 1,102,161 258,772 293,910 (12.0)%
Earnings before interest and taxes 689,894 796,321 183,972 212,352 (13.4)%
Capital expenditures – cash basis 93,927 96,768 25,047 25,805 (2.9)%
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) Capital expenditures in 2019 decreased by
for the year ended December 31, 2019 2.9% compared to the year ended December
totaled SAR 689,894 ($183,972) compared to 31, 2018, from SAR 96,768 ($25,805) to
SAR 796,321 ($212,352) in 2018, a decrease SAR 93,927 ($25,047). This was mainly
of SAR 106,427 ($28,380), or 13.4%. This was attributable to reduced spending on the
primarily due to lower revenues as a result of Fadhili Gas Plant as it nears completion as
lower crude oil prices and production. well as further optimization activities.
ecnamrofrep
dna
stluser
[TABLE DATA]
9,943
202
535
319
222
11,221
8,978
960
9,938
13,172
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
970,395 | 1,102,161
796,321
96,768 |  | 258,772 | 293,910
212,352
25,805 | (12.0)%
|  |  |  |  |
689,894 |  |  | 183,972 |  | (13.4)%
|  |  |  |  |
93,927 |  |  | 25,047 |  | (2.9)%
[Page 51]
49
Crude oil Saudi Aramco owns and operates the Abqaiq
facility, which is its largest oil processing
Overview
facility and the largest crude oil stabilization
Saudi Aramco actively manages its prolific
plant in the world. Saudi Aramco also
reserves base to maximize long-term value
operates four crude terminals that contribute
while optimizing ultimate recovery from its
to its operational flexibility and supply
fields. Because of the size and number of its
reliability. In addition, Saudi Aramco also has fields, Saudi Aramco is able to maintain its
strategic international delivery points located
desired level of overall production by tapping
in Rotterdam (the Netherlands), Ain Sukhna
into new reservoirs as costs rise in maturing
(Egypt), Fujairah (United Arab Emirates) and
areas, enhancing capital efficiency, increasing
Okinawa (Japan).
overall stability of production and ultimately
improving total oil recovery. Diversification Diversification of supply
Saudi Aramco consistently produces five
of supply sources for crude oil from new
grades of Arabian crude oil: Arabian Super
reservoirs has the benefit of allowing lower sources for crude oil from
Light, Arabian Extra Light, Arabian Light,
depletion rates from existing fields and
deferring costs for additional wells and Arabian Medium and Arabian Heavy. These new reservoirs has the
crude grades and the wide range of blends
facilities to handle higher total fluid
that can be produced from them are benefit of allowing lower
displacement rates at such fields.
compatible with most refineries globally.
In 2019, Arabian Super Light, Arabian Extra depletion rates from
Saudi Aramco’s principal fields are located
Light and Arabian Light accounted for
in close proximity to each other within existing fields
approximately 67% of Saudi Aramco’s total
the Central and Eastern Provinces of the
crude oil production and were classified
Kingdom. The crude oil, condensate, natural
as premium grades. On a total basis,
gas and NGLs that Saudi Aramco produces
Saudi Aramco produced 9.9 mmbpd (2018:
from its fields travel through Saudi Aramco’s
10.3 mmbpd) of crude oil (including blended
extensive network of pipelines to multiple
condensate but excluding the Kingdom of
facilities for processing into refined products
Bahrain’s share of volumes produced from
or to domestic customers or export terminals.
the Abu Sa’fah field ), of which approximately
In particular, Saudi Aramco’s East-West
6.2 mmbpd (2018: 6.4 mmbpd) were sold to
pipeline is critical in linking oil production
third-party customers. Also, Saudi Aramco’s
facilities in the Eastern Province with Yanbu’
downstream business is the single largest
on the west coast, and providing flexibility
customer of Upstream’s crude oil, consuming
to export from the east and west coasts of
approximately 38% of its crude oil production
the Kingdom.
in both 2019 and 2018.
Reservoir modeling
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 52]
50
MSC Performance and achievements • The Dammam project with a total
Saudi Aramco continued to support the production capacity of 75 mbpd is
1 2.0
Kingdom’s role as a reliable supplier of expected to commence operations in
energy. Accordingly, spare capacity was two phases. The preparation for phase
mmbpd maintained to respond to changes in global one has commenced and is planned to
crude oil supply and demand and to be completed in 2022 with an expected
supplement operational and supply reliability. capacity of 25 mbpd, while the remaining
spare capacity was maintained to help capacity is planned to commence
stabilize the market when needed The swift and effective restoration of the operations in 2026.
Abqaiq and Khurais capacity after the attacks
in September 2019 enabled Upstream to On September 14, 2019, Saudi Aramco’s
maintain the MSC at 12.0 mmbpd during 2019. Abqaiq and Khurais facilities were attacked,
which resulted in explosions, fires and
Maintaining MSC requires crude increments, significant damage to equipment at each
development and maintain potential drilling facility. As a result of these attacks,
as well as support programs such as well Saudi Aramco’s crude oil production was
intervention and reservoir pressure maintenance. temporarily reduced by approximately 54%.
Significant work has been undertaken to Saudi Aramco took a number of actions
progress key increment projects. Highlights to minimize the impact on its customers,
of the status of these projects are listed below: including tapping into its crude oil inventories
located outside the Kingdom, swapping
• The Harmaliyah increment was completed
grades of deliveries and curtailing NGL
and commenced operations in January
deliveries to some customers and increasing
2019, adding 25 mbpd to reach a total
production from other fields. As at
of 100 mbpd capacity;
September 25, 2019, Saudi Aramco’s
• The ‘Ain Dar and Fazran increments are production had recovered to the same
progressing in the construction activities. level as that prior to the attacks. The related
Both increments are expected to restoration and construction work is currently
commence operations in 2020 with a total on-going and the estimated cost of repairs
production capacity of 175 mbpd; of those facilities is not expected to have
a material impact on the Company’s financial
• The engineering design phase and the
position or results of operations.
procurement work have commenced for
both the Marjan and Berri field increment
programs. These projects are expected
to contribute 300 mbpd and 250 mbpd
of crude oil, respectively, and are expected
to commence operations in 2023; and
Khurais plant
ecnamrofrep
dna
stluser
[Page 53]
51
Wasit Gas Plant
Gas and NGLs Pursuant to the Concession, Saudi Aramco
is the exclusive supplier of natural gas in the
Overview
Kingdom. Saudi Aramco sells natural gas to
Saudi Aramco’s non-associated gas fields
power generation plants primarily pursuant
vary widely in reservoir properties, depths,
to long-term contracts and to customers in
pressures and compositions. In general, the
the Kingdom’s industrial sector. The supply
southern area around the Ghawar field has
of natural gas to domestic customers is
rich gas at moderate depths and permeability,
regulated by the GSPR and the prices paid
while the northern offshore fields (Karan,
by domestic customers are set by resolutions
Arabiyah and Hasbah) have leaner gas in
issued from time to time by the Council
deeper reservoirs with high permeability.
of Ministers. Saudi Aramco also exports
Additionally, Saudi Aramco’s crude oil
a portion of its NGLs production.
production provides a base load of associated
gas, which is rich in liquids.
In-line with its strategy, Saudi Aramco seeks
over time to develop an integrated global
Saudi Aramco’s primary natural gas
gas portfolio and is pursuing investment
processing and fractionation facilities are
and joint venture opportunities outside the
located in three geographical regions: Jubail,
Kingdom in natural gas and LNG projects.
Ghawar and the Kingdom’s western area.
The facilities are strategically located near its
In 2019, Saudi Aramco produced
fields to reduce transportation and pipeline
approximately 9.0 bscfd of natural gas
compression costs, as well as the time
(2018: 8.9 bscfd), 1.0 bscfd of ethane
required to deliver gas products to market.
(2018: 1.0 bscfd), 1.1 mmbpd of NGLs
As at December 31, 2019, the total gas
(2018: 1.1 mmbpd) and an additional
processing system had a capacity of 17.0 bscfd
0.2 mmbpd of unblended condensate
(2018: 15.5 bscfd). This capacity feeds the
(2018: 0.2 mmbpd).
MGS, an extensive network of pipelines that
connects Saudi Aramco’s key gas production
and processing sites throughout the Kingdom.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 54]
52
Performance and achievements provide additional gas processing capacity
The Kingdom’s growing demand for energy at HGP, achieving a total processing
1.5 continues to drive Saudi Aramco’s large-scale capacity of 3.6 bscfd of raw gas. Operations
pursuit of new gas, ethane, and NGLs are expected to commence in 2021;
bscfd production. Saudi Aramco’s strategy to meet • The Tanajib Gas Plant, which is part of the
demand leverages all aspects of exploration,
Marjan Development Program, provides
appraisal and development of conventional
for gas processing facilities of up to
Fadhili Gas Plant facilities achieved and unconventional resources in addition
2.5 bscfd with operations expected to
1.5 bscfd capacity at year-end to investment in infrastructure.
commence in 2023. The engineering
design work phase and critical material
Major gas projects throughout 2019 are
procurement have commenced for this
as follows:
project. This project will process gas from
• Fadhili Gas Plant achieved 1.5 bscfd the Marjan, Safaniyah and Zuluf fields; and
capacity and is expected to reach full
• Hawiyah Unayzah Reservoir Gas Storage
capacity of 2.5 bscfd in 2020;
will be the first underground natural gas
• Ethane deep recovery facility at the storage project in the Kingdom to inject
Uthmaniyah Gas Plant to recover an 1.5 bscfd of surplus natural gas from the
additional 85 mmscfd of ethane has been MGS into the Hawiyah Unayzah Reservoir
completed and was undergoing during off-peak demand by 2022. In
commissioning activities at year-end 2019; addition, the program will provide gas
processing facilities to reproduce up to
• Haradh increment program for the
2.0 bscfd of gas for re-introduction into
Hawiyah Gas Plant (HGP) expansion
the MGS by 2024.
project is currently under construction to
Tanajib plant
ecnamrofrep
dna
stluser
[Page 55]
53
In addition, Saudi Aramco successfully Performance and achievements
and safely restored full production levels Saudi Aramco’s exploration activities during
following the attack on its Shaybah NGL 2019 resulted in the following discoveries:
facility on August 17, 2019. The facility was
• Crude oil: two fields, two new reservoirs
attacked by five unmanned aerial vehicles,
and seven successful delineations; and
which resulted in fires and damage to the
processing and cogeneration infrastructure • Conventional gas: one new onshore field,
at the facility. No injuries or fatalities were five reservoirs and six successful
reported during the incident. Restoration delineations.
of plant operations on one NGL train was
completed within two weeks after the Unconventional resources
attack. Saudi Aramco took a number of steps
Overview
to mitigate the impact of the shutdown on
Saudi Aramco has initiated an unconventional
its customers, including providing alternative
resources program and it is assessing several
feedstock supply where possible.
areas within the Kingdom for their potential
to deliver gas and associated liquids to help
Exploration
meet future domestic energy needs. The
Overview unconventional resources program consists
The exploration program continued its of exploration activities, pilots, producing
effort to achieve the strategic objectives and wells and production facilities, with the goal
associated targets of growing Saudi Aramco’s to develop unconventional gas resources in
oil and non-associated gas reserves. support of the Kingdom’s growing demand
for gas and to offset crude oil used for power
Crude oil generation. The unconventional resources
The majority of Saudi Aramco’s current program continued to delineate and prove
crude oil exploration activities are focused the Kingdom’s unconventional gas resource
in the Eastern Province, with lower levels base, pursue full development of the Jafurah 2019 was a year of
of exploration and expenditure in known and South Ghawar fields and to carry out
hydrocarbon-bearing basins in the Rub’ maintain potential activities in North Arabia, success, growth and
al-Khali, Northwest and Summan regions. which has been producing since 2018.
transformation for
Saudi Aramco places strong emphasis on Subsequent to year end, Saudi Aramco
operational performance improvement of received regulatory approval for the
unconventional resources
its drilling activities by applying innovative development of the Jafurah field.
technologies and benchmarking of key
metrics to identify trends and potential areas Performance and achievements
for enhancements. Saudi Aramco believes 2019 was a year of success, growth and
that its approach to drilling and development transformation for unconventional resources.
has led to high levels of well integrity. A significant milestone has been achieved
with the commissioning of additional surface
Natural gas processing facilities that include four satellite
Saudi Aramco’s non-associated gas facilities and associated well sites. Total
exploration activities have yielded a number North Arabia processing capacity is now
of major discoveries, with particular success 400 mmscfd.
in the Ghawar area and in deep reservoirs in
the Arabian Gulf. Saudi Aramco has enjoyed Outlook for 2020
high success rates in locating new reserves
Saudi Aramco’s Upstream segment will
in known hydrocarbon basins adjacent to its
continue to focus on maintaining its
existing fields and production infrastructure,
preeminent position in oil and gas
allowing it to meet growing domestic
exploration, development and production.
demand at low costs while also exploring in
Saudi Aramco plans to maintain its MSC
new basins with high potential. Saudi Aramco
as required by the Government.
expects to further expand its natural gas
reserves through new field discoveries, new
reservoir additions in existing fields, and the
delineation and reassessment of existing
reservoirs and fields.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 56]
54
downstream
Saudi Aramco’s downstream investments
diversify its revenue by integrating its oil
and gas operations to optimize value across
the hydrocarbon chain
Downstream
competitive strengths
• Ability to monetize upstream production
into a high-quality external customer base
and through a dedicated downstream
system;
• Strong track record of supply reliability;
• Global network of complex, reliable assets
in key regional markets and hubs;
• Scale advantage with one of the largest
refining portfolios globally;
• World class partners that provide access
to additional geographies, technological
expertise, operational know-how and
marketing capabilities; and
• Potential to become a major
petrochemicals producer globally.
ecnamrofrep
dna
stluser
[Page 57]
55
Key events in 2019 Overview
On March 27, 2019, the Company entered Saudi Aramco has a large, strategically
into a purchase agreement with the PIF to integrated global downstream business.
acquire the PIF’s 70% equity interest in SABIC The Downstream segment’s activities consist
for total consideration of $69.1 billion. SABIC primarily of refining and petrochemical
operates in over 50 countries and produces a manufacturing, supply and trading,
range of chemicals, including ethylene, distribution and power generation. The
ethylene glycol, ethylene oxide, methanol, strategic integration of Saudi Aramco’s
MTBE, polyethylene and engineering plastics Upstream and Downstream segments
and their derivatives, among other products. provides an opportunity for Saudi Aramco
to secure crude oil demand by selling
In 2019, Saudi Aramco continued to capture to its dedicated system of domestic and
value from further strategic integration and international wholly owned and affiliated
diversification of its operations, including: refineries. In 2019, Saudi Aramco’s In 2019 we experienced
downstream operations consumed 38%
• Acquiring a 17% equity interest in Hyundai
(2018: 38%) of its crude oil production. a very challenging market
Oilbank from HHIH for SAR 4.4 billion
($1.2 billion), with an option to acquire an environment but kept pace
The Downstream segment’s other business
additional 2.9% equity interest. Hyundai
activities include base oils, lubricants and
Oilbank operates a fully integrated refining with our long-term strategy
retail operations.
plant with a processing capacity of 650.0
mbpd; to secure placement of
Saudi Aramco’s downstream investments
• Acquiring Shell Saudi Arabia Refining diversify its revenue by integrating its oil and our crude, de-risking and
Limited’s 50% equity interest of the gas operations to optimize value across the
SASREF joint venture for SAR 2.4 billion hydrocarbon chain, supporting crude oil and optimizing our Company’s
($631.0 million) thereby increasing Saudi gas demand and, in the case of international
product portfolio through
Aramco’s net refining capacity by an refining operations, facilitate the placement
additional 152.5 mbpd; of its crude oil in large offtake volumes
investments in strategically
relative to its equity interest and capital costs.
• Entering into a 50:50 joint venture with
Total S.A. (Total) and acquiring a network In line with this strategy, Saudi Aramco has located refining and
significantly increased its net refining capacity
of 270 service stations and a fuel tanker
from 2.2 mmbpd as at December 31, 2010 chemical assets. We also
fleet in the Kingdom under the “Sahel”
to 3.6 mmbpd as at December 31, 2019.
brand name;
Saudi Aramco’s gross refining capacity as continued to build out
• Acquiring 100% of the equity interest at December 31, 2019 was 6.4 mmbpd, an
additional businesses,
in Motiva Chemicals LLC (previously Flint increase of 1.5 mmbpd from December 31,
Hills). The cash purchase price paid at 2018. Additionally, Saudi Aramco’s ongoing
including retail, trading,
closing was SAR 7.1 billion ($1.9 billion). initiatives focus on optimizing petrochemicals
Motiva Chemicals LLC owns and operates integration at existing facilities as well as and lubes that will add
a chemical plant located in Port Arthur, developing new integrated facilities.
Texas, comprising of a mixed feed cracker, additional value in the
a cyclohexane unit, a benzene unit,
NGL and ethylene pipelines and storage years ahead.”
facilities; and
• Signing a Shareholder Agreement with
the intent to establish a joint venture to Abdulaziz M. Al Gudaimi
own and operate the Jazan Integrated Senior Vice President, Downstream
Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC) plant.
The joint venture shareholders will be Saudi
Aramco with 20%, Air Products with 46%,
ACWA Power with 25% and Air Products
Qudra with 9% equity interests.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 58]
56 All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated
Downstream financial results
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 2019 2018 2019 2018 % change
Revenue and other income related to sales
(including sales to other segments) 527,419 552,825 140,645 147,420 (4.6)%
Earnings (losses) before interest and taxes (3,478) 12,638 (927) 3,370 (127.5)%
Capital expenditures – cash basis 26,696 32,677 7,119 8,714 (18.3)%
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
Earnings (losses) before interest and taxes (EBIT)
Refining and Chemical margins were lower in 2019 compared to 2018 due to slower global economic growth and oversupplied gasoline and
petrochemicals markets. Accordingly, Downstream EBIT for the year decreased by 127.5% from SAR 12,638 ($3,370) in 2018 to a loss of
SAR 3,478 ($927) in 2019, which includes SAR 5,996 ($1,599) related to Saudi Aramco’s share of an impairment charge recognized by Sadara.
Capital expenditures decreased by 18.3% from SAR 32,677 ($8,714) in 2018 to SAR 26,696 ($7,119) in 2019. This was predominantly due to
the completion of the S-Oil Residue Upgrade Complex and Olefins Downstream Complex upgrade and reduced spending on the Jazan Refinery
Complex and MGS Phase II as these developments near completion.
Refining Domestic refining
The majority of Saudi Aramco’s refining
Overview
operations are located in the Kingdom. Its
Saudi Aramco operates one of the world’s
in-Kingdom refineries (both wholly owned
largest refining businesses, with gross
and affiliated) receive their crude oil supply
refining capacity of 6.4 mmbpd for 2019
2 5 (2018: 4.9 mmbpd). Saudi Aramco’s refining from Saudi Aramco’s upstream production.
operations are conducted in the Kingdom
% As a result, in 2019, Saudi Aramco placed
and internationally through wholly owned
25% (2018: 25%) of its crude oil production
and affiliated refineries. The refining
and 0.2 mmbpd (2018: 0.2 mmbpd) of
operations allow Saudi Aramco to transform
condensate to in-Kingdom wholly owned
placed 25% of the Company’s crude oil its crude oil and NGLs into refined products
and affiliated refineries. Saudi Aramco’s
production, or 2.5 mmbpd, to its and chemicals for sale within the Kingdom
equity share of refined products and the
in-Kingdom refineries and internationally.
refined products produced through its wholly
owned refineries located within the Kingdom
Saudi Aramco specifically designs and
are primarily distributed wholesale to
configures its refining system to optimize
domestic fuels retailers and industrial
production using the crude oil it produces,
customers through Saudi Aramco’s pipelines,
which helps improve supply chain cost and
distribution and terminals system.
operational efficiency in its refining
operations and therefore supply of refined
products to its downstream customers.
ecnamrofrep
dna
stluser
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
527,419 | 552,825
12,638
32,677 |  | 140,645 | 147,420
3,370
8,714 | (4.6)%
|  |  |  |  |
(3,478) |  |  | (927) |  | (127.5)%
|  |  |  |  |
26,696 |  |  | 7,119 |  | (18.3)%
[Page 59]
57
Domestic wholly owned refining Consistent with its downstream strategy,
operations Saudi Aramco and Petronas are involved in
Saudi Aramco’s Jazan Refinery Complex the joint development of PRefChem, which
project is intended to address the Kingdom’s includes a 300.0 mbpd refinery, an
refined products demand, power needs, integrated steam cracker with capacity to
and to support economic growth. Once produce 1.3 million tonnes of ethylene with
Jazan refinery becomes fully operational, associated propylene, butadiene, benzene,
Saudi Aramco will have five wholly owned polyolefins and ethylene glycol facilities, all of
refineries within the Kingdom. which are located in Johor, Malaysia,
adjacent to Singapore, Asia’s refined
In September 2019, Saudi Aramco completed products trading hub. PRefChem is expected
the acquisition of Shell Saudi Arabia Limited’s to be fully operational in the second half of
50% equity interest in SASREF for cash 2020 and Saudi Aramco will provide a
consideration of SAR 2.4 billion ($631 million). significant portion of PRefChem’s crude
As a result of this transaction, Saudi Aramco supply under a long-term supply agreement,
became the sole shareholder of SASREF, which presents an expansion opportunity in
now renamed as Saudi Aramco Jubail Southeast Asia and offers new geographies
Refinery Company, which owns and operates for crude oil sales.
a 305.0 mbpd refinery.
Saudi Aramco sold
Saudi Aramco’s net refining capacity for its
Domestic affiliated refining operations international wholly owned and affiliated 4.2 million tonnes of
Saudi Aramco’s four domestic affiliated refineries was 1.5 mmbpd (2018: 1.2
refineries within the Kingdom are highly mmbpd). Product sales by Saudi Aramco’s base oils, making it one
competitive with other world-class facilities international ventures are facilitated through
based on scale, configurations and product multiple channels of distribution, including of the primary marketers
yields. Through long-term supply agreements systems owned by the respective affiliates
with these ventures, Saudi Aramco has the through over 17,000 branded fuel retail of base oils globally
right to supply all crude processed at these networks.
refineries.
Performance and achievements
International refining and marketing In 2019, Saudi Aramco placed 9% (2018:
In addition to increasing its in-Kingdom
7%) of its crude oil production, or 0.9
refining capability, Saudi Aramco is also
mmbpd (2018: 0.7 mmbpd) to its domestic
expanding its strategically integrated
wholly owned refineries and 16% (2018:
downstream business in high-growth
18%), or 1.6 mmbpd (2018: 1.9 mmbpd), to
economies, such as China, India and
its domestic affiliated refineries. Moreover,
Southeast Asia, while maintaining its current
Saudi Aramco supplied 1.2 mmbpd (2018:
participation in material demand centers,
1.3 mmbpd) of crude oil to its international
such as the United States, and countries
wholly owned and affiliated refineries.
that rely on importing crude oil, such as
Japan and South Korea.
Base oils
In 2019, Saudi Aramco completed its Overview
acquisition of a 17% equity interest in During the year, Saudi Aramco’s three
Hyundai Oilbank from HHIH. The business affiliates, Luberef, Motiva and S-Oil, as major
portfolio of Hyundai Oilbank and its producers and marketers of base oils, have
subsidiaries includes oil refining, base oil, completely rebranded their products utilizing
petrochemicals, and a network of branded the official Saudi Aramco base oil brands:
retail fuel stations. Saudi Aramco’s aramcoDURA® (Group I), aramcoPRIMA®
investment in Hyundai Oilbank will also (Group II), and aramcoULTRA® (Group III).
support its crude oil placement strategy Saudi Aramco has also created an Aramco
by providing a dedicated outlet for Arabian Base Oils Alliance with its three affiliates to
crude oil in South Korea. The Daesan better serve its customers.
Complex, where Hyundai Oilbank’s major
facilities are located, is a fully integrated Performance and achievements
refining plant with a processing capacity In 2019, Saudi Aramco sold 4.2 million tonnes
of 650.0 mbpd. (2018: 4.1 million tonnes) of base oils,
making it one of the primary marketers of
base oils globally.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 60]
58
Motiva sells fuel
in the U.S.
at more than
5,000 stations
Retail operations Chemicals
Overview Overview
Saudi Aramco continues
In 2019, Saudi Aramco continued to grow Saudi Aramco’s chemicals business represents
its fuel retail presence through its affiliates. an extension of the hydrocarbon value chain
to execute its strategy
Saudi Aramco has continued to supply and strategically complements its refining
towards becoming a top- refined products to more than 17,000 service operations. Saudi Aramco’s growing
stations worldwide with 5,300 located in operations in chemicals include participation
tier integrated chemicals the U.S., more than 5,200 in China and in high-growth chemical markets with
South Korea, 6,500 in Japan and 270 service demand from industries such as packaging,
company through growth, stations in Saudi Arabia. automotive and appliances.
integration, innovation
Performance and achievements Saudi Aramco has strategic positions
In February 2019, Saudi Aramco grew its domestically and internationally, and benefits
and development of its
service stations business and increased its from technical and operational knowledge
product portfolio access to in-Kingdom retail customers by transfer. The core of its petrochemical
entering into a 50:50 joint venture with manufacturing is conducted through affiliates
Total to operate service stations in the located in the Kingdom, China, Japan, South
Kingdom. Saudi Aramco and Total also Korea and the Netherlands with key industry
entered into an agreement to acquire a players, including Dow (Sadara), Sumitomo
network of 270 service stations and a fuel (Petro Rabigh), Total (SATORP) and Sinopec
tanker fleet in the Kingdom under the (YASREF). Through these affiliates,
“Sahel” brand name. The transaction closed Saudi Aramco produces commodity and
in June 2019. Saudi Aramco and Total intend differentiated petrochemicals.
to rebrand these newly acquired service
stations in the future.
ecnamrofrep
dna
stluser
[Page 61]
59
The proposed acquisition of the PIF’s 70% Pipelines, distributions and
equity interest in SABIC recently received terminals
unconditional clearance in all jurisdictions in
Overview
which pre-notification antitrust filings were
Saudi Aramco’s Kingdom-wide distribution
required and is expected to close in the first
network includes pipelines, bulk plants,
half of 2020. Post acquisition, Saudi Aramco’s
air refueling sites and terminals that deliver
chemicals business will operate in over
crude oil, NGL, natural gas and refined
50 countries and produce a range of
products. In particular, Saudi Aramco’s
chemicals products. Saudi Aramco believes
East-West pipeline is critical in linking oil that purchasing a majority interest in SABIC
production facilities in the Eastern Province
will advance its strategy to increase the
with Yanbu’ on the west coast, and providing
proportion of petrochemicals production in
flexibility to export from the east and west
Saudi Aramco’s downstream portfolio and
coasts of the Kingdom. In both 2018 and
support its downstream growth ambitions.
2019, the East-West pipeline transported
an average of 2.1 mmbpd of crude oil.
As at December 31, 2019, Saudi Aramco had
a net and gross chemical production capacity
Saudi Aramco’s MGS, an extensive network
of 21.7 million (2018: 16.7 million) and
of pipelines that connects its key gas
46.1 million (2018: 33.2 million) tonnes per
production and processing sites throughout
year, respectively. Upon closing of the SABIC
the Kingdom, is currently undergoing an
transaction, Saudi Aramco is expected to
expansion. The system’s current capacity is
have the largest net production capacity for
9.6 bscfd of natural gas supplying Eastern,
ethylene and monoethylene glycol, and to
Central and Western industrial complexes.
be among the top four companies by net
production capacity for polyethylene and
In addition, Saudi Aramco has a 15% equity The East-West crude
polypropylene.
interest in the Arab Petroleum Pipeline
pipeline successfully
Company (Sumed Company), a joint venture
Performance and achievements
which operates the Sumed pipeline. The
Saudi Aramco continues to execute its strategy achieved temporary
pipeline runs from the Red Sea to the
towards becoming a top-tier integrated
chemicals company through growth, Mediterranean Sea through Egypt and mechanical capacity
provides an alternative to the Suez Canal.
integration, innovation, and development
increase from 5.0 mmbpd
of its product portfolio. Investments made
Saudi Aramco supplies oil products to
in integrated refining and chemicals and in
customers throughout the Kingdom, which to 7.0 mmbpd
stand-alone chemicals illustrate Saudi Aramco’s
provides it with reliable demand and allows
commitment and ambition to be the world’s
for high utilization of its domestic refining
preeminent integrated energy and chemicals
system. In order to meet demand and help
company.
ensure high levels of supply reliability,
Saudi Aramco has made significant
In October 2019, through its wholly owned
investments in a global distribution system
subsidiary, Motiva, Saudi Aramco acquired
that utilizes sophisticated control and
100% of the equity interest in Motiva
monitoring hardware and highly skilled
Chemicals LLC (previously Flint Hills).
personnel to ensure highly reliable operations
Motiva Chemicals LLC owns and operates
that maximize the value of the crude oil
a chemical plant located in Port Arthur,
and other products Saudi Aramco produces
Texas, comprising a mixed feed cracker, a
and sells.
cyclohexane unit, a benzene unit, NGL and
ethylene pipelines and storage facilities. This
Performance and achievements
transaction marks Saudi Aramco’s entry into
The East-West crude pipeline successfully
the U.S. chemicals market with an exciting
achieved temporary mechanical capacity
opportunity to develop synergies between
increase from 5.0 mmbpd to 7.0 mmbpd
its refining and chemicals business. The
through interim conversion of NGL pipelines
cash purchase price paid at closing was
and use of reducing agents.
SAR 7.1 billion ($1.9 billion).
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 62]
60
Supply and trading Performance and achievements
In 2019, Saudi Aramco expanded its trading
Overview
activities worldwide by adopting a globally
Saudi Aramco manages crude oil sales
integrated business model to capture
operations, along with a large and growing
maximum value through greater market
portfolio of refining and chemicals facilities,
access and coverage. Currently, Saudi
in the three major markets of Asia, Europe,
Aramco has five global trading offices
and North America. As part of its strategy
operating worldwide, with wider access
to unlock additional value, Saudi Aramco is
to customers and greater market coverage.
expanding into crude oil, refined products
and chemicals trading and is seeking to
7.1 significantly grow its total traded volumes In 2019, Saudi Aramco traded an average
of 4.5 mmbpd (2018: 4.0 mmbpd) of crude
over the next few years.
and refined petroleum products, 2.2 million
mmbpd tonnes of liquid chemical products
With the recent increase in scale of its
(2018: 1.6 million tonnes) and 1.4 million
downstream operations, Saudi Aramco is
tonnes of polymers (2018: 715 thousand
total crude exports averaged 7.1 mmbpd well positioned to use its production and
tonnes). In 2019, total crude exports
distribution network to optimize its supply
averaged 7.1 mmbpd (2018: 7.3 mmbpd).
and trading capabilities. By optimizing the
production, refining and distribution processes
Despite the attacks in Abqaiq and Khurais in
and integrating them with its trading
September 2019, the Company maintained
business, Saudi Aramco seeks to ensure
its ability to meet customer needs through
that customers receive reliable service and
the execution of emergency response plans,
consistent products. In addition, there is
meeting 99.2% (2018: 99.8%) of its delivery
the potential to optimize product flows on
obligations on time in 2019. This high level of
a domestic and international basis across
reliability was achieved through a well trained
regional and global supply chains to
workforce and an agile in-Kingdom and
maximize value.
global trading function that is supported by
the robustness of Saudi Aramco’s facilities.
Ras Tanura
Sea Island
ecnamrofrep
dna
stluser
[Page 63]
61
Power systems As part of Saudi Aramco’s initiative to
optimize the Kingdom’s fuel-mix utilization
Overview
and to reduce liquid burning in the power
As at December 31, 2019, Saudi Aramco’s
sector, Saudi Aramco has worked jointly
power operations comprised 16 captive
with in-Kingdom stakeholders to establish
power plants and associated transmission
an efficiency based plan that aims to reduce
and distribution assets located across the
high value liquid burning, promote Kingdom. These assets are primarily designed
sustainability, and utilize competitive gas
to provide electricity and steam to Saudi
resources.
Aramco’s upstream oil and gas production Downstream segment’s
facilities, gas processing plants and wholly
owned downstream refineries in a safe, Outlook for 2020 primary focus is on value
reliable, efficient and profitable manner. Saudi Aramco’s Downstream segment will
creation, including upgrading
Some of these power assets are wholly continue to integrate across the value chain
owned while others are owned by joint with investments throughout its operations
its systems to capture
ventures in which Saudi Aramco has an with the aim of creating additional
ownership interest. Saudi Aramco also enters value while diversifying the portfolio and synergistic opportunities
into offtake arrangements with independent mitigating the volatility of earnings. The
power producers. In addition, Saudi Aramco Downstream segment’s primary focus is in order to increase
currently owns a 6.9% stake in the Saudi on value creation, including upgrading its
Electricity Company, the Kingdom’s national systems to capture synergistic opportunities competitiveness compared
electricity utility company, and a 24.8% in order to increase competitiveness
to international peers
stake in Marafiq, a domestic utility company compared to international peers.
that serves the industrial areas of Jubail
and Yanbu’. Key events and initiatives include:
• Following the expected closing of the
For the years ended December 31, 2018
proposed acquisition of the PIF’s 70%
and 2019 Saudi Aramco had 6.5 gigawatts
equity interest in SABIC, Saudi Aramco’s
of power generation capacity.
chemicals business will operate in over
50 countries and produce a range of
Performance and achievements
chemicals;
In 2019, Saudi Aramco generated
4.8 gigawatts (2018: 4.8 gigawatts) of • By the end of 2020, Saudi Aramco expects
power, of which 3.3 gigawatts its net refining capacity to increase to
(2018: 3.5 gigawatts) was used to meet 4.0 mmbpd and gross refining capacity
internal demand and the remaining to increase to 6.8 mmbpd;
1.5 gigawatts (2018: 1.3 gigawatts) of spill
• Trading activities are expected to continue
power was transferred to the national grid.
to increase due to an anticipated increase
in refining capacity and the expansion
A shareholder agreement was signed with
of third-party crude oil trading; and
the intent to establish a joint venture to own
and operate the Jazan Integrated Gasification • Saudi Aramco expects to identify and
Combined Cycle (IGCC) plant. The joint execute international growth opportunities
venture shareholders will be Saudi Aramco through joint venture partnerships as part
with 20%, Air Products with 46%, ACWA of its crude oil placement strategy.
Power with 25% and Air Products Qudra
with 9% equity interest.
Saudi Aramco completed the physical
establishment and operationalization of the
Intelligent Power (iPower) center, which is
aimed at driving and accelerating its digital
transformation of the whole value chain of
power systems.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 65]
63
Overview
Corporate activities play an integral role in
supporting Saudi Aramco’s Upstream and
Downstream segments by providing technical
and other support services that are essential
to the success of our core business, such as
engineering services, capital planning, project
management, procurement, environmental
protection, office services, aviation, marine,
industrial security, human resources, finance,
legal, corporate affairs and IT.
Financial performance
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 2019 2018 2019 2018 % change
Losses before interest and taxes 13,098 12,927 3,493 3,447 1.3%
Capital expenditures – cash basis 2,259 2,321 602 619 (2.7)%
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
Losses before interest and taxes were stable year-on-year, and include costs relating to Saudi Aramco’s employee home ownership program,
post-employment benefits and corporate citizenship costs.
Capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2019 principally relate to various community and industrial support projects.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
Financial performance
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 2019 2018 2019 2018 % change |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
Losses before interest and taxes
Capital expenditures – cash basis | 13,098 | 12,927
2,321 |  | 3,493 | 3,447
619 | 1.3%
|  |  |  |  |  |
| 2,259 |  |  | 602 |  | (2.7)%
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
Losses before interest and taxes were stable year-on-year, and include costs relating to Saudi Aramco’s employee home ownership program,
post-employment benefits and corporate citizenship costs.
Capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2019 principally relate to various community and industrial support projects. |  |  |  |  |  |
[Page 69]
67
By living its corporate values – Citizenship,
Safety, Accountability, Excellence, and
Integrity – the Company seeks to deliver
value for shareholders, customers, partners,
and the communities in which it operates.
Since its founding, one of Saudi Aramco’s
core principles has been to improve the
communities where it operates. As Saudi
Aramco has grown, this responsibility has
expanded to taking real steps to protect
the environment, and engaging in a range
of corporate social responsibility projects
and initiatives.
Saudi Aramco strives to support local
socioeconomic development initiatives and
seeks to comply with all applicable laws,
regulations and corporate policies. For its
operations within the Kingdom, the
Company has developed environmental
standards aligned with top industry practices
to achieve the Company’s environmental
objectives. Future focus will be on leading
in low-carbon intensity, supporting the
development of non-fuel applications for
crude oil, and targeting the highest impact
solutions across the oil and gas value chain.
Saudi Aramco understands the importance of
good governance to any sustainable business
and has integrated governance mechanisms
across its operations. As it enters a new
era of public ownership, it is dedicated to
enhancing transparency in public reporting
and accountability for its stakeholders.
Saudi Aramco’s focus
will be on leading in
low-carbon intensity,
supporting the development
of non-fuel applications for
crude oil, and targeting the
highest impact solutions
across the oil and gas
value chain
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 70]
68
governance
framework
Good governance is at the core
of how Saudi Aramco operates and
is fundamental to sustainable success
Saudi Aramco has had the opportunity to preparedness, incident reporting and
leverage shared knowledge, expertise and investigation, competency and training,
experience since its earliest days, and community awareness, off-job safety,
continues to advance its operating platforms risk management and asset integrity. This
and governance mechanisms. Committee actively tracks and monitors the
health, safety, security, and environmental
The Company’s approach to managing performance across the organization to
the ESG considerations builds upon this extend accountability and improve safety
foundation and has continued to mature performance.
in parallel with an evolving business context.
The Company has established Board and The Company’s Climate Initiatives Steering
Company committees, processes and Committee (CISC), made up of leaders from
A Board level Risk
procedures, and ESG is integrated into its Risk across the business, guides and oversees
Register and Enterprise Risk Management management of climate and sustainability
and Health, Safety, and
(ERM) systems. See Section 5: Risk, for more actions. This includes the carbon footprint of
Environment Committee details. operations and assets, and the understanding
of future energy, technology and climate
provides strategic ESG management is a priority for Saudi change trends. CISC facilitates coordination
Aramco at the Senior Executive and Board and collaboration among relevant internal
direction and governance levels. Established committees, systems, and external organizations and parties with
procedures and programs are in place respect to climate change matters.
on health, safety, and
to manage ESG matters and provide the
Company with the ability to respond in A Nomination Committee oversees, reviews,
environmental matters
an orderly manner. and approves changes to the Company’s
corporate governance practices and
ESG-related initiatives and performance procedures. It also develops and recommends
have historically been managed by a variety codes of professional conduct and ethics
of operational functions and overseen representing the Company’s values. The
by governing bodies across the Company, Nomination Committee advises the Board
in alignment with its corporate strategies, regularly with respect to significant
and monitored by the Board and associated developments in corporate governance
committees. practices.
The Board’s Risk and Health, Safety, and An ESG strategy and reporting function
Environment (HSE) Committee provides has been established to oversee the ESG
strategic direction and governance on health, framework in Saudi Aramco. The function
safety, and environmental matters. It is responsible for developing, ensuring
oversees the management of the associated implementation, and communicating
risks and performance indicators. The Company positions on emerging sustainability
Company’s Health, Safety, Security and topics, aligning with Company strategy
Environmental (HSSE) Committee establishes and objectives, building awareness, and
the Company’s safety policy and standards sustainability reporting.
covering key issues, including emergency
)GSE(
ecnanrevog
dna
laicos
,latnemnorivne
[Page 71]
69
Saudi Aramco’s performance dashboards All of this is carried out under the auspices
include ESG-related Key Performance of the Corporate Compliance Department,
Indicators (KPIs), and are reviewed by which is responsible for enterprise-wide
management on a regular basis. Corporate compliance-related systems, programs
KPIs are used to measure performance and and practices.
to allocate annual performance bonuses
for all employees. Whistleblowing
Detailed policies and procedures require Saudi Aramco’s
Ethical conduct all employees to report suspected improper
performance dashboards
behavior, including ethical concerns, through
The Company has implemented corporate
a dedicated, anonymous General Auditor
governance policies and procedures specified include ESG-related Key
Hotline. Internal or external subject matter
in the Kingdom’s Corporate Governance
experts determine whether and how to Performance Indicators
Regulations and additional policies and
investigate the allegation. The policies and
procedures appropriate for a company of
procedures also include whistleblower (KPIs), and are reviewed
its size, structure and industry. A Code of
protections. The existence and purpose of
Business Conduct provides guidelines to the hotline is communicated to all employees by management on
the Directors, Senior Executives, employees
through the Company’s continuous
and contract employees of the Company a regular basis
compliance training campaigns and initiatives.
and its controlled affiliates regarding, among
other things, integrity, health, safety and
2019 2018
environmental protection, competition and
Allegations received 507 462
antitrust, anti-bribery and anti-corruption,
insider trading and compliance with
Concerted efforts and a communication
applicable law.
strategy have increased trust in the system
and expanded awareness and use of the
Suppliers and contractors are held to the
hotline across the Company’s operations.
Company’s standard of ethics through a
All allegations have been reviewed and
dedicated Supplier Code of Conduct. For
investigated. In 2019, 9% of received
each of these policies, the Company has
allegations have resulted in cases whereby
operating guidelines and instructions
irregular activities were substantiated and
addressing record-keeping, approval
for which corrective actions were applied.
procedures, appropriate behavior, stakeholder
responsibilities, governance, process flows,
Grievance mechanisms
workflow interfaces and audits.
In addition to the anonymous hotline,
a channel exists for employees to raise
To promote the adoption of the Company’s
formal complaints. The Company has
ethics and compliance principles into its
engaged employees to promote a culture
corporate culture, regular training is provided
of psychological safety, where it is safe
to employees across business lines, as well as
to speak up.
suppliers and contractors, in connection with
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption, Conflict
of Interest, and Business Ethics policies.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 72]
70
Business resilience and The Company’s Operational Excellence
continuity planning management system enables continuous
improvement and operational discipline
With its operations in the Kingdom of Saudi
through management of its various systems.
Arabia, and across the globe, Saudi Aramco
It comprises processes, procedures, rules
recognizes the risks associated with political
The Company carefully and standards that work together to govern
and social instability, terrorism, and armed
operations of all operating assets throughout
manages security concerns conflict. The Company takes these ongoing the asset lifecycle. Examples include the
risks seriously as part of its continuity
Safety Management System, Environmental
that could have a material planning and has demonstrated the ability
Management System, Asset Integrity
to recover expeditiously from even significant
Management System, Energy Management
effect on its business, physical attacks on its facilities. The Company
Program, Business Continuity Management,
carefully manages security concerns that
financial position and Data Protection Program, Inspection
could have a material effect on the safety
Programs, Knowledge Management
of its staff, contractors, its business, financial
operations Program and others.
position, or assets.
Refer to Section 5: Risk for more details.
)GSE(
ecnanrevog
dna
laicos
,latnemnorivne
[Page 73]
71
Information security Cybersecurity
Saudi Aramco recognizes cybersecurity as
The Company works to protect Company
a risk-management imperative in today’s
data and systems, ensure business continuity
increasingly digital business, political, and
and operational recovery, and repel intrusion
technological landscape. The Company
attempts.
addresses cybersecurity at senior levels,
including Board consideration and oversight
Data privacy
of the Company’s cybersecurity and assessment
Data privacy compliance is important to the
of risks. Cybersecurity is a top corporate risk
Company and enshrined in a Board approved
and is regularly reviewed by the Risk and
enterprise-wide data privacy and protection
HSE Committee.
policy, developed to protect the personal
data of all employees, contractors,
shareholders, customers, vendors, job
Refer to Section 5: Risk for more details.
applicants, and website users. The data
privacy and protection policy obligates The Company works to
The Company has programs, controls
employees to ensure compliance with the
and processes in place designed to protect
applicable data privacy and protection laws protect Company data and
Company data and systems, to ensure
and regulations.
business continuity and operational recovery systems, ensure business
and to repel intrusion attempts. To respond
The Company’s Code of Business Conduct
to an ever-changing cyber threat landscape, continuity and operational
outlines expectations with respect to
the Chief Information Security Officer leads
maintaining the privacy of employee
the cybersecurity governance management recovery, and repel
personal data and the data of customers
model for Saudi Aramco’s operations in
and business partners. intrusion attempts
the Kingdom, to establish and maintain
cybersecurity policies, direct the cybersecurity
programs, and mandate relevant processes,
capabilities and technologies.
In addition, the Company has established
a Supply Chain Cybersecurity Program
to combat cyber risks originating from
third parties.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 74]
72
environmental
stewardship
Saudi Aramco understands the
importance of managing precious
natural resources
Grow sustainably The Company celebrates its role in global Climate change
economic development by extracting,
Saudi Aramco understands that no single
processing and delivering its products safely,
Saudi Aramco’s “Grow Sustainably” solution is sufficient to solve the climate
reliably, and efficiently.
approach to addressing climate-related challenge. The Company’s approach
risks and opportunities is based on leverages a diverse and balanced portfolio,
As a company founded and operating in
key commitments: champions technological innovation, and
a desert nation, Saudi Aramco understands
is collaborative in nature. It aims to work
• Maintain the Kingdom’s crude oil the importance of managing precious
towards solutions that will improve the
upstream carbon intensity as among natural resources and continues to promote
delivery of affordable and reliable energy
the lowest globally; environmental awareness within and outside
to people across the world for societies
the Company. It has long been a pioneer
• Support sustainable oil-based to have access to the energy they need to
in water conservation, energy efficiency,
transport; sustain economic growth and development.
management of emissions, waste, leaks,
• Drive low-GHG revenue growth; and and spills management and the conservation
Advancing local, industry
of the natural environment.
• Target high-impact solutions to and global climate initiatives
address climate change. Saudi Aramco participates in collaborations
The Company’s environmental commitments
that support the development of sustainable
are underpinned by an environmental
energy systems and low Greenhouse Gas
management system, aligned to ISO 14001:
(GHG) technologies. Saudi Aramco is
2015 standards, to manage compliance and
a founding member of the Oil and Gas
drive environmental performance through
Climate Initiative (OGCI) and a member
continual improvement and an environmental
of the International Petroleum Industry
master plan that provides a framework for
Environmental Conservation Association
achieving the Company’s environmental
(IPIECA), the Petroleum Environmental
objectives. The Environmental Protection
Research Forum, and the World Bank’s
Policy ensures compliance with the Kingdom’s
“Zero Routine Flaring by 2030” initiative.
environmental regulations as well as
mitigates risks related to the environment
The Company also supports the Government’s
and public and workers’ health. It outlines
efforts to achieve its contributions as a
the Company’s commitments to protect the
signatory of the Paris Agreement as well
natural environment, and emphasizes the
Saudi Aramco has long as other climate change mitigation and
need to regularly monitor and improve
adaptation efforts by the Kingdom.
resource management, carbon footprint
been a pioneer in water
and emissions reduction, and biodiversity.
conservation, energy
The Board’s Risk and HSE Committee and the
efficiency, management CISC oversee the corporate risk management
program focused on environmental
of emissions and the compliance. Each subsidiary company is
responsible for establishing its own
conservation of the natural
environmental compliance framework and
monitoring ongoing compliance consistent
environment
with the Environmental Protection Policy.
)GSE(
ecnanrevog
dna
laicos
,latnemnorivne
[Page 75]
73
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions Minimizing flaring Low carbon intensity
Saudi Aramco believes that, for the Since the 1970s, the Company has acted to
foreseeable future, hydrocarbon-based mitigate the negative environmental impacts
The proven low carbon intensity of
energy will remain indispensable to of systematic flaring of associated gas by
Saudi Aramco’s upstream operations,
supporting continued economic expansion utilizing gas for power generation and
a product of both the unique geology
and higher living standards. petrochemicals production, which also has
of the Kingdom’s reserves as well as its
positive economic benefits to the Company. focus on innovation and smart reservoir
The Company established a GHG emissions The Company has grown the MGS, which
management practices, positions Saudi
management program to account for Scope 1 supplies gas for use in the electric power
Aramco to remain a supplier of choice and 2 GHG emissions from the Company’s facilities located in the Kingdom and in the
throughout future energy transitions.
operations and assets, develop relevant KPIs, Kingdom’s rapidly growing petrochemical
identify initiatives that could further reduce sector. The development of the MGS
Saudi Aramco has strengthened its
its already low carbon intensity, and support reduced the Company’s environmental
operational performance through
reporting requirements based on industry impact and GHG emissions arising from
continuous improvement of its business
guidelines. The program follows the flaring, in addition to supporting national
processes, systems and policies. The
widely-accepted IPIECA industry guidelines economic growth.
Company’s legacy and framework for
and aligns with the GHG protocol developed
operational excellence and its capacity
by the World Resources Institute and the In addition to the MGS, the Company
to deliver at scale have driven efficiency
World Business Council for Sustainable established a flaring minimization plan in
and reliability across its operations.
Development, as well as the American 2006 to further improve its environmental
Petroleum Institute Compendium of performance. The Company also invested in
The upstream process improvements
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Estimation Company-wide Flaring Minimization Roadmap,
are designed to maintain the low
Methodologies for the Oil and Natural Gas and a Fourth Industrial Revolution Center,
carbon intensity of the Company’s
Industries (API Compendium). designed to monitor flaring and other
operations and flaring reduction
operations in real time. The following table
commitments. The following table
The Company’s full year 2018 GHG emissions provides flaring intensity for the in-Kingdom
provides the upstream carbon intensity
were verified for the first time by a certified wholly owned operated assets in 2018
for the in-Kingdom wholly owned
third party and an independent limited and 2019.
operated assets, based on total verified
assurance opinion was issued. The GHG
2019 2018 GHG emissions and total hydrocarbon
emissions include carbon dioxide, methane
Flaring intensity deliveries, applying estimates available
and nitrous oxide.
(standard cubic feet at the time of publication of this
per barrel of oil produced) 5.54 5.77 Annual Report. The 2019 data reflects
The following table provides the Company’s
estimates for the fourth quarter of
direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) The reduction in flaring intensity in 2019 is 2019. Hence, metrics are subject to
emissions for the in-Kingdom wholly owned mainly attributed to improvements in flare change pending third party verification
operated assets, based on estimates available gas recovery systems, enhanced equipment in 2020.
at the time of publication of this Annual reliability, and improved flare management
Report. The 2019 data reflects estimates practices. 2019 2018
for the fourth quarter of 2019. Hence, Upstream carbon
metrics are subject to change pending third In 2019, Saudi Aramco formally endorsed intensity
party verification in 2020. and signed the World Bank’s “Zero Routine (kg of CO 2 e/boe) 10.1 10.2
2019 2018 Flaring by 2030” initiative, with the objective
of sharing best practices and knowledge in
Scope 1 emissions* 44.7 46.6
flaring minimization, reporting progress and
Scope 2 emissions* 13.2 14.7
demonstrating its efforts in reaching zero
* Million metric tons of COe. routine flaring. The following table provides
2
volume of flared gas for the in-Kingdom
The Company is pursuing various initiatives wholly owned operated assets in 2018
to manage the carbon footprint of its and 2019.
operations and assets by implementing
2019 2018
flare gas recovery systems, energy efficiency
Flared gas (mmscf) 26,551 27,783
programs, leak detection and repair
programs and evaluating the potential
utilization of carbon dioxide in various
applications, such as enhanced oil recovery.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
44.7
13.2
[Page 76]
74
Methane emissions Energy efficiency
Methane emissions remain a focus area for The Company issued its corporate energy
Saudi Aramco, given the greater warming conservation policy in 2000, and has been
potential of methane, compared to carbon improving its energy performance. Energy
dioxide. Intensity (EI) is the key metric used to
measure and report the energy performance.
Throughout 2018 and 2019, the Company The following table provides EI KPI results
implemented a leak detection and repair for the in-Kingdom wholly owned operated
program, enabling further reductions in assets in 2018 and 2019.
emissions through the identification and
2019 2018
mitigation of fugitive leaks. The program
Energy intensity
covers all operating wholly owned facilities
(thousand BTUs per boe) 114.1 118.4
in Saudi Arabia, and entailed detailed process
analysis, tagging millions of components,
Non-industrial and renewable energy
field surveys, equipment upgrades, and
In 2013, Saudi Aramco launched a
changing processes.
non-industrial energy initiative called the
Lead by Example program. Starting with
The following table provides the upstream
its own facilities, the program aims to
Methane Intensity in percentage terms for
demonstrate viable energy efficiency
the in-Kingdom wholly owned operated
solutions for other companies and
assets based on estimates available at the
communities to emulate and concentrates
time of publication of this Annual Report.
on six key focus areas: water heaters,
The 2019 data reflects estimates for the
lighting, vehicles, heating ventilation and
fourth quarter of 2019. Hence, metrics are
air conditioning (HVAC), home ownership,
subject to change pending third party
and smart electricity meters. The program
verification in 2020.
targets a 35% reduction of the Company’s
2019 2018 non-industrial energy consumption by 2020
Energy intensity Upstream methane versus a 2013 baseline, and has achieved
intensity (%) 0.057 0.057 90% progress against this goal, with a
total accumulated energy savings of 27%,
Collaborating for emissions reductions equivalent to 660 thousand barrels of oil,
thousand BTUs per boe across the value chain as of the end of 2019.
Saudi Aramco is actively engaging partners
118.4 114.1
across its value chain to improve the The Company is also deploying renewable
efficiency of their energy use and reduce energy systems in office buildings and
their environmental footprint. As part of this industrial facilities such as production wells
effort, the Company is pursuing advanced and bulk plants. For example, in January
research and development (R&D) programs 2017, the Company installed the Kingdom’s
for further reducing emissions in its first wind turbine at the Turaif Bulk Plant.
upstream, refining, and chemicals operations Additionally, the Company has installed a
as well as end-use applications. Saudi carpark solar panel system covering a total
Aramco is actively engaged in developing area of 100,000 square meters with a power
cutting-edge technologies such as novel generation capacity of 10.5 MW.
carbon capture, utilization, and storage
(CCUS) solutions for both fixed and mobile
2018 2019
sources and potentially game-changing
thermal and catalytic crude-to-chemicals
processes.
Saudi Aramco also works with engine
technology developers and major automakers
to introduce innovative internal combustion-
based transport and fuel technologies,
compression ignition, improve internal
combustion engine efficiency and reduce
GHG emissions through new engine designs
and fuel formulations. Advances in the
efficiency of internal combustion engines,
along with advanced fuel formulations to
support them, can significantly reduce overall
transport-based GHG emissions.
)GSE(
ecnanrevog
dna
laicos
,latnemnorivne
[Page 77]
75
Research and Development (R&D) The Company seeks to reduce its dependence Freshwater consumption
on non-renewable groundwater by using
Saudi Aramco manages a global network of
non-traditional water sources like seawater,
12 research and technology centers located
treated sewage effluent, and treated reject
in the Kingdom and abroad with the goal million cubic meters
streams.
of delivering new technologies to achieve
its recovery, discovery, and diversification 36.15
and sustainability objectives. The water conservation policy, issued in 30.5
2011 in compliance with the ISO 14001:2015
standard, is overseen by the HSSE Committee
The Company and its subsidiaries ARLANXEO
at the Company-level and the Risk and
and Motiva collectively filed 637 US patent
HSE Committee at the Board level.
applications and received 335 US patents in
2018. In 2019, 1,048 US patent applications
Discharge and effluents
were filed and 524 were granted. About
The Company monitors its hydrocarbon
19% of the 2019 granted patents relate to
discharges by deploying online monitoring
production, 18% drilling, 14% chemicals and
systems to provide continuous, reliable and
refining, and 11% reservoir engineering. With
accurate measurements of hydrocarbons in
regard to filed patents, about 21% relate to
wastewater effluents, helping to proactively
drilling, 16% production, 12% chemicals and 2018 2019
manage hydrocarbon discharges to the
refining and 8% reservoir engineering.
marine environment in a timely manner.
The following table provides quantities of
The Company’s research projects like the
hydrocarbon discharge to marine for the
Corporate Nonmetallic Strategy, designed
in-Kingdom wholly owned operated assets
to find new lower carbon-impact uses for
in 2018 and 2019.
oil-based products and extend the lifecycle Hydrocarbon discharge to marine
of industrial materials, are well under way 2019 2018
and seek to discover new ways to enhance Hydrocarbon discharge
the value of plastics and, in turn, reduce the to marine (barrels) 15 18
barrels
potential for negative environmental impacts.
Waste management 18
The Company has deployed nonmetallic Waste management is an integral part of 15
piping across its operations, including both the Company’s operations where waste is
onshore and offshore applications. The categorized into three management streams:
Company continues R&D efforts to expand hazardous, non-hazardous (including
the operating envelope for nonmetallics. municipal), and inert waste. Management
options are then ranked by their environmental
Protecting the natural impact with highest priority going to waste
prevention, followed by reuse, recycling,
environment
recovery and, lastly, disposal. All new and
Water selected existing projects are assessed for
The Company’s comprehensive water waste minimization opportunities, and the
conservation efforts entail supplementing design of facilities and processes includes
2018 2019
water supply with non-traditional sources, reuse, recycling, and recovery opportunities.
implementing water-efficient practices,
maximizing wastewater reuse and minimizing The Company launched a corporate
water losses. enhanced waste management initiative.
This initiative includes all waste management
The Company’s freshwater consumption was aspects related to waste generator, waste
higher in 2019 compared to 2018 mainly due transporter, waste receiver, waste management
to inclusion of new operating facilities and technologies, compliance, and performance
increase in drilling activities. of facilities, current practices by waste
2019 2018 generators, waste data and monitoring.
Freshwater consumption
(million cubic meters) 36.15 30.5
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 78]
76
SOx equivalent Operational incidents Air emissions
The Company proactively manages its The Company seeks to continually reduce
operations in a manner that seeks to avoid emissions through capital investment and
hydrocarbon leaks and spills by maintaining operational improvement. In 2018 and 2019,
kilotons
asset integrity throughout the asset lifecycle. the Company maintained the volume of
202 202 This approach includes prevention, sulfur oxide (SOx) emissions for the in-
preparedness and incident response, making Kingdom wholly owned operated assets at
use of modern technologies to monitor 202 kilotons of SO equivalent, which include
2
operations in real time and mitigate risk sulfur dioxide (SO) and sulfur trioxide (SO).
2 3
of leaks. These technologies include high
frequency radar, high-tech mooring buoys, 2019 2018
intelligent early-warning systems and SOx equivalent (kilotons) 202 202
hydrodynamic modeling capabilities. The
following table provides quantities of spills to The low SOx emissions are mainly attributed
the environment for the in-Kingdom wholly to efficient sulfur recovery operations at
owned operated assets in 2018 and 2019, several facilities, in addition to the effect
including spills and leaks of at least 1 barrel. of lower than planned flaring. The sulfur
2200118 2019 recovery dashboard at the Fourth Industrial
2019 2018 Revolution Center also provides an
Spills to the environment opportunity to closely monitor sulfur recovery
(barrels) 18 139 performance and initiate prompt action
The Company seeks
to address potential failure.
The Company has dedicated functions
to continually reduce
responsible for controlling all leaks and spills
emissions through capital and for maintaining onshore and offshore
spill response readiness. Its offshore response
investment and operational teams serve the Company as well as other
parties that may request assistance.
improvement
Mangrove restoration
and conservation
The Company is developing a mangrove
eco-park, which will help foster knowledge
and appreciation of this fragile ecosystem.
A mangrove plantation initiative to restore
lost mangrove habitats in the Kingdom’s
Eastern Province coastal areas aims to
plant two million mangrove trees.
Although this is a voluntary environmental
stewardship initiative, this effort is
important to protect the natural habitats
and ecosystems the Company relies on
in its areas of operation. The Company
supported a study to estimate carbon
sequestration associated with mangroves,
which highlighted that areas such as the
Ras Tanura mangrove eco-park and Abu
Ali Island are able to store approximately
1.7 million metric tons of CO over the
2
lifetime of the mangroves.
)GSE(
ecnanrevog
dna
laicos
,latnemnorivne
[Page 79]
77
Biodiversity preservation Shaybah wildlife sanctuary
The Company believes that the protection
and preservation of the natural environment A 637 square kilometer reserve located adjacent to one of
for future generations is vital to its continued Saudi Aramco’s mega-facilities in Saudi Arabia’s Rub’ al-Khali
success. The Company maintains 10 different desert region, Shaybah Wildlife Sanctuary has been instrumental
sites that have been designated as Corporate in protecting native flora and fauna such as the Arabian oryx,
Biodiversity Protection Areas, where it gazelles, and ostriches.
endeavors to protect local natural ecosystems.
The areas include diverse initiatives from
migratory bird sanctuaries, to sandy-gravel
wildflower fields and mangrove forests. Eight
additional sites are currently under review 6 37
for designation as biodiversity protection
areas. In 2019, the Company focused on the
sq km
following biodiversity preservation projects.
One million trees
The size of the Shaybah wildlife sanctuary,
In May 2018, the Company commenced
one of 10 different sites that have been
a program to plant one million native trees in
designated as Corporate Biodiversity
strategic locations throughout the Kingdom,
Protection Areas
helping to combat desertification, enhance
native biodiversity and create shaded areas.
Over 300,000 trees have been planted as
of 2019.
Protecting the Asir Magpie
The Company entered into a partnership with
the Smithsonian Institution and the Saudi
Wildlife Authority to save one of the unique
and highly endangered species in Asir region
(in the south-west of Saudi Arabia) – the Asir
magpie – whose estimated numbers have
dwindled to just 100 breeding pairs. Using
genetic markers, GPS tracking systems and
tracking of vital health indicators, this
initiative involves studies to assess population
genetics, estimate magpie population size,
density, habitat use and distribution, and
identify strategies to save the species.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 80]
78
people and
communities
Saudi Aramco makes efforts
to recruit, develop and retain
a highly diverse workforce
Contractor safety Providing for our people The Company employs a Safety Management
System (SMS) that includes performance
The Company’s employees and workplace
expectations and specifies safety roles and
The Company is dedicated to the culture are important to its success. The
responsibilities for management, employees
health, safety, wellness and overall Company invests in its personnel and has
and contractors. It is aligned with the
human rights of its contractors. The implemented a number of training and skills
Company’s safety policy, which drives a
Company’s success and resilience stem development programs.
disciplined approach in establishing specific
from collaborating with its committed
safety expectations and provides a framework
partners as they contribute 80% of Saudi Aramco makes efforts to recruit,
for managers to fulfil their safety and loss
total man-hours. Dedicated teams develop and retain a highly diverse workforce,
prevention obligations.
continuously provide in-depth and employs numerous strategies and
assessments and support to improve programs to promote their personal and
The Company benchmarks its safety
contractor safety performance. Living professional growth.
performance against industry standards and
conditions and contractor pay are
performance targets. Safety performance
assessed on a regular basis to ensure Occupational health and safety
is measured and tracked through a set of
adequate labor conditions. Proactive Safety is not a choice but a requirement
KPIs established by the HSSE Committee
safety performance metrics and injury when working for or engaging in business
and reported to the Board Risk and HSE
statistics are utilized to drive selection with Saudi Aramco. An enterprise-wide,
Committee. The Company administers an
of contractors performing high risk organizationally-driven focus on health
effective program for conducting safety
construction, drilling, operation and and safety supports the Company’s goal of
reviews and maintains an annual calendar
maintenance activities. The Company’s protecting its workforce, preventing property
for site visits by top management and deep
safety culture is rooted in integrating losses and avoiding business interruptions,
dives into key process safety components.
safety in every facet of its business, while adapting to market and operating
including contractor utilization. conditions. This involves a continuous
The following table provides the Company’s
improvement approach and a low risk
safety performance in 2018 and 2019 for
tolerance with rigorously applied operational
the total workforce, including employees
safety procedures.
and contractor personnel, of the in-Kingdom
wholly owned operated assets.
The Company has various occupational and
environmental health programs in place to
2019 2018
protect its workforce, contractor employees,
Tier 1 events 4 7
and various communities where the
Company operates from hazards that TRC frequency* 0.059 0.056
may arise from its operations or activities, LTI rate* 0.016 0.014
including the Occupational Health Hazard Number of fatalities 6 9
Assessment, Hazard Materials Communication,
Comprehensive Environmental Health * Per 200,000 man-hours.
Assessment and Contractor Camp
Environmental Health Inspection program.
)GSE(
ecnanrevog
dna
laicos
,latnemnorivne
[TABLE DATA]
4
0.059
0.016
6
[Page 81]
79
The Company continued to maintain Attracting top talent Road traffic safety
a position of safety leadership among In order to build a pipeline of the best and
industry peers with respect to occupational brightest talent, Saudi Aramco engages
As traffic safety is a significant public
and process safety performance in 2019. This in early outreach programs with select
health risk in Saudi Arabia, the
was achieved by emphasizing operational in-Kingdom universities, colleges and high
Company has instituted a Traffic Safety
discipline, committed and visible safety schools. Through these programs, company
Signature Program to engage
leadership, and innovative safety technologies. representatives help students prepare for employees, contractors and the public
their futures and begin to consider career
on safe driving. It has invested in new
In 2019, the Company suffered six fatalities opportunities with the Company. In 2019,
technology and infrastructure including among contractors at remote sites mainly the Company visited 29 cities in the Kingdom
real-time trackers on Company fleet
involving construction activities. These and met with over 21,000 students, a 60%
vehicles to monitor driver behavior,
incidents are taken seriously and quickly increase over the previous year. Outreach
and is building facilities for highway
addressed by the Company in accordance programs include sessions for female
rest stops to avoid the risks of highway
with its health and safety policies and students such as the Female University
shoulder parking. The Company has
procedures. Each incident has been Seminar initiative in partnership with
embedded traffic safety into its work
investigated with root causes identified and Princess Nourah Bint Abdulrahman University
culture by directly linking employee
corrective actions taken to avoid recurrence. in Riyadh.
performance appraisals to traffic safety.
Since 2012, there has been a 52%
Health and safety training The Company’s vocational school,
reduction in deaths or serious injuries
Health and safety training is provided to college and apprenticeship programs raise
resulting from traffic accidents
personnel at all levels of the Company awareness of, and attract key talent to,
associated with company, contractor,
throughout their careers. During 2018 and career opportunities with the Company.
and employee vehicles in the Eastern
2019, the Company developed enhanced
Province of Saudi Arabia.
training programs in management of change, Local hiring
equipment and process isolation simulation, The Company is consistently committed
and the Company’s work permit system. to creating employment opportunities for
In addition to the existing training, the Saudi nationals. As of December 31, 2019,
Company is focusing efforts on developing approximately 88.5% of the Company’s
new interactive and multimedia training employees were Saudi nationals.
utilizing advanced e-learning methodologies
that can be easily accessed from any location, Diversity and inclusion
with supplemental classroom training and The Company, in its own right and in
examination as required. In addition, health alignment with international frameworks,
and safety leadership training is provided is fully committed to gender, special needs
for supervisors and senior management. and generational inclusion in its workforce.
The Company’s employees represent over
Empowering workforce 90 different nationalities and its corporate
The Company values professionals of all values include treating all people with
backgrounds, genders, abilities, races and fairness and respect, embracing diversity
ethnicities, in the Kingdom and abroad. and accepting differences among its people.
The Company has worked hard to attract
and develop diverse and high-caliber talent Today, female employees include engineers
across its business lines and geographies. working in the field and in plants, scientists
in the Company’s R&D centers conducting
The Company offers incentives, benefits innovative research, inventors coming up Since 2012, there has been
and educational, professional and personal with new processes and products, and
a 52% reduction in deaths
development opportunities, as well as health traders selling products to customers around
care programs, housing and recreational the world. In fact, more than 180 patents
or serious injuries resulting
facilities. These programs and initiatives are have been filed collectively by female
designed to promote employee satisfaction, employees at Saudi Aramco and its from traffic accidents
development, health and well-being. The subsidiaries globally.
following table provides the Company’s total associated with company,
number of employees for the in-Kingdom The Company is actively investing in
wholly owned operated assets in 2018 having greater female representation contractor, and employee
and 2019. within its workforce and leadership. As of
vehicles in the Eastern
31 December 2019, 4.9% of the workforce
2019 2018
consisted of women and the Company
Company employees 69,867 67,947 Province of Saudi Arabia
now has one female Board member.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 82]
80
The following table provides the share of quality childcare. The Company has taken
female employees for the in-Kingdom wholly a leading role in promoting and supporting
owned operated assets in 2018 and 2019. the right of women to drive in the Kingdom
following changes to applicable laws in 2018.
2019 2018 The Company opened a driving center to
Female employees 4.9% 4.7% train the Company’s female employees and
employees’ female family members, as well
To further increase the To further increase the percentage of women as to encourage a safer and friendlier driving
employed by the Company and to broaden environment on the Kingdom’s roadways.
percentage of women
the pool of qualified female employees in
employed by the Company the energy sector generally, the Company Employee development and
conducts Science, Technology, Engineering, capacity building
and to broaden the pool and Math (STEM) programming in The Company’s employees and workplace
elementary schools to encourage future culture are important to its success. The
of qualified female careers in these fields. The Company also Company invests in its personnel and has
sponsors young Saudi women pursuing implemented a number of training and skills
employees in the energy
degrees in STEM subjects through various development programs. The Company
training institutes, academies and a university believes these programs allow it to shape
sector generally, the
scholarship program. Other programs include its workforce for the future.
Company conducts STEM the Gulf Regional Organization for Women
initiative, Leadership Excellence for Women Saudi Aramco’s training and development
programming in elementary Awards & Symposium, STEMania program organizations collaborate with top local and
for school-age girls, and targeted university international universities to provide robust
schools to encourage scholarships. Specifically, the Company has career development programs.
been actively promoting women in Petro-
future careers in these fields
Technical Professional (PTP) jobs through Saudi Aramco engages with top universities,
the Company’s college degree sponsorship such as Harvard Business School, London
program. More than 170 PTP graduate Business School, and Wharton School of the
female students are part of Saudi Aramco’s University of Pennsylvania. In 2019, over
core operations today. 140 selected employees attended programs
custom-designed for Saudi Aramco by these
Complementary to the Government’s business schools. Additionally, the Company’s
childcare program (Qurrah) provided to Leadership Center in Ras Tanura trains over
working mothers, the Company also provides 21,000 employees each year in key leadership
daycare services at its Dhahran headquarters capabilities.
to ensure working mothers have access to
)GSE(
ecnanrevog
dna
laicos
,latnemnorivne
[Page 83]
81
Labor practices
Saudi Aramco programs and institutions
provide employees and their families with
a safe, comfortable and rewarding work
environment.
A designated team conducts monthly analysis
to measure construction contractor and
sub-contractor well-being in all departments,
with a focus on living conditions, medical
care, work efficiency, salary, and training
and development.
Medical care
The Company provides employees with
access to high-quality medical care through
its Employee Medical Program. In 2013, the
Company engaged in a joint venture with
Johns Hopkins Medicine to enhance health
services for Saudi Aramco employees and
their families. In 2018, Saudi Aramco
expanded its medical care offering for
employees, retirees and their families through Employees
a partnership with BUPA. volunteer
in a range of
Human well-being community
The Company established a Human Energy projects
Management (HEM) program to energize
Local and global citizenship
employees and encourage well-being
through research-based workshops that The Company engages in a range of
deliver resources on the science and art of corporate social responsibility projects and
human well-being. In 2019, HEM delivered initiatives to support the communities and
117 workshops on topics like stress the environment in which it operates and
management, workplace ergonomics, leverages its know-how and operational
nutrition and wellness, and provided different capabilities to further advance these projects.
certifications and events Company-wide, The Company strives to make a positive
benefiting over 6,500 employees in total. impact across the two central pillars of its
Citizenship strategy by supporting the
Employee rights and fair representation intellectual, creative and economic
Saudi Aramco follows all relevant laws and development of its people, and protecting
practices of the jurisdictions that apply to and sustaining the unique environment and
its operations and workforce with respect diverse habitats of the planet.
to workplace organizing.
Citizenship efforts reflect both a long history Citizenship efforts reflect
The Company Workers’ Committee is a of supporting socio-economic development
both a long history of
team of elected employees who voluntarily and the needs of today’s emerging
represent all workers in the corporation knowledge society. The Company aims to
supporting socio-economic
regardless of their nationalities or genders. have a positive impact on communities and
The Workers’ Committee mandate, approved citizens in Saudi Arabia and in the many development and the
by the Ministry of Human Resources and other countries where it does business.
Social Development, is to present needs of today’s emerging
recommendations to management in the Recent efforts include education and training
following five areas: programs, and pioneering the Kingdom’s knowledge society
first regular, public programs for people with
• Promoting safety and occupational health;
disabilities.
• Improving workers’ health and hygiene;
• Improving work conditions and
circumstances;
• Enhancing workers’ productivity and quality
to create a stable work relationship; and
• Developing workers’ vocational and
administrative training programs, and
improving cultural and social standards.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 84]
82
Ithra
1 ,500
The largest corporate citizenship project undertaken by the
Company on its own initiative was the construction of The King
Abdulaziz Center for World Culture (Ithra) in Dhahran, which
opened in late 2017. Ithra is the first of its kind in the Kingdom and
contains an 18-floor “knowledge tower” with learning facilities,
a children’s museum, performing arts theater, library and cinema. volunteers donated over 60,000 hours
leading events and programs both at the
Ithra focuses on accelerating creativity, inspiring minds, and Center and around the Kingdom
empowering talent. During 2019, Ithra hosted dozens of
performances and exhibitions, welcomed over 50,000 visitors to
the Children’s Museum, another 40,000 students who participated
in the Center’s School Visitation Program, and 1,500 volunteers
who donated over 60,000 hours leading events and programs
both at the Center and around the Kingdom. Between 2018 and
2019, Ithra hosted over a million visitors.
)GSE(
ecnanrevog
dna
laicos
,latnemnorivne
[Page 85]
83
Knowledge and creativity The Shamah Autism Center and Abdul Latif
Training centers Al-Fozan Autism Center have the capacity to
The Company has established a partnership serve hundreds of students with autism, with
with Technical & Vocational Training the aim to educate the public about autism
Corporation and other stakeholders to build and raise awareness about autistic patients’
training academies for young Saudis that rights.
provide training in various industry sectors
through a sponsorship scheme followed by Corporate matching employee
employment. Working in tandem with donations program
the Board of Energy Sector Training and Through donation campaigns designed
the Saudi-based Technical and Vocational to raise social awareness, the Company’s
Training Corporation, the Company has employee donation program provides a Saudi Aramco has helped
helped over 22,000 Saudi youth to graduate platform for employees to engage with the
from Training Center programs to date. community, and in addition, the Company over 22,000 Saudi youth
matches the donations raised by employees.
Saudi Aramco Entrepreneurship One such campaign, that ran between 2016 to graduate from Training
Center (Wa’ed) and 2018, delivered hearing aids to hearing
Center programs to date
The Company Entrepreneurship Center impaired children in the Kingdom.
(Wa’ed) was established to foster the
entrepreneurial and innovation ecosystem in Socio-economic development
Saudi Arabia by investing in and empowering in the Kingdom
the most promising Kingdom-based The Company’s initiative to seed micro
entrepreneurs. Wa’ed has established a industries in the Kingdom is designed to
comprehensive suite of end-to-end services empower people to shape their own
for entrepreneurs including but not limited to economic future by creating additional value
professional business development support, from traditional crafts and natural resources.
business incubation and acceleration, The Company has identified several micro
innovative solutions to market challenges, industries that, with the right business model
and a variety of funding options to energize and support, are ripe for generating
entrepreneurs. Since its founding, Wa’ed long-term impact for local communities. Helping beekeepers
has created 1,700 new job opportunities, These programs focus on delivering training
funded 80 ventures, hosted 70 teams of and training facilities, knowledge, tools and
In partnership with the Al-Baha
entrepreneurs in its startup lab, and trained technology that remove financial barriers
Beekeepers Cooperative Association,
more than 400 entrepreneurs. and lay the groundwork for participants and
the Company has been helping
beneficiaries to succeed in new endeavors
beekeepers in Al-Baha improve their
Supporting people with disabilities and enterprises.
honey yield quantity and quality.
Establishing national centers for
Since 2016, the program has planted
people with disabilities In the Jazan Mountains, Saudi Aramco’s
flowering trees and generated
Saudi Aramco is committed to improving coffee programs have supported farmers
500 jobs.
the living conditions of community members with training, farm preparation and water
with disabilities and their families. The network system installations, resulting in the
Company extends financial and technical planting of over 20,000 seedlings since 2016,
support to autism and Down syndrome replacing other less sustainable crops.
centers, rehabilitation centers and centers
for individuals with special needs. The Company is working in partnership with
the Border Guard, Ministry of Environment,
The Company provided the funds to Water and Agriculture, and Nesma Holding
construct the Shamah Autism Center in Company to strengthen fishing industries in
Dammam. This is the first multidisciplinary Yanbu’ and Jazan, providing expertise and
autism center for Saudi children in the equipment to fishermen collectively since 2018.
Eastern Province of the Kingdom. In addition,
the Company constructed the Ajyal Center The Company has provided embroidery
for Comprehensive Education & Life Skills. training and jobs to hearing-impaired and
The center serves children with developmental other under-served women in Dammam
disabilities, including autism spectrum since 2017, also in partnership with Nesma
disorder, behavioral disorders and intellectual Holding Company.
disabilities.
These programs seek to make a real
difference in people’s lives by equipping
community members with the knowledge
and skills to establish, manage and grow
sustainable businesses.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 86]
84
International citizenship initiatives North America
Saudi Aramco’s community efforts extend As the base of North American operations
beyond the borders of Saudi Arabia with and home to many of its regional affiliates,
participation in community outreach and much of Saudi Aramco’s North American
development efforts everywhere it operates. community-related efforts focus on or
These range from natural disaster relief and originate from the Houston area. In the
educational initiatives in China, habitat aftermath of Hurricane Harvey in 2017,
preservation programs in Japan and Saudi Aramco volunteers have continually
Southeast Asia, to STEM and petrochemical provided assistance to the local community,
industry education programs in the U.S. including packing over 300,000 meals for
and Europe. Saudi Aramco’s international at-risk families and working on Habitat for
citizenship efforts are governed by the Humanity crews to rebuild 176 homes.
Company’s Citizenship Executive Committee. It is also the title sponsor of the Houston
Everywhere Saudi Aramco The committee advises on the Citizenship Half Marathon, and in Houston and across
Strategy and overarching position, approves the United States, over 5,000 students
operates, it participates in related plans and mobilizes requisite business and educators have participated in
support, ensures alignment of activities and Saudi Aramco-sponsored STEM education,
community outreach and spending, monitors progress and compliance career awareness, environmental stewardship
of related programs and develops citizenship and energy conservation programs.
development efforts
activity budgets for CEO and Board approval.
Europe
Saudi Aramco’s community outreach
programs in Europe seek to motivate
people to become more active and engaged
members of their communities. In the
Netherlands, for example, another location
central to its global operations, Saudi Aramco’s
supports a range of local philanthropic and
recreational opportunities like the Juliana
Children’s Hospital; one of the country’s
leading pediatric hospitals, and the Aramco
Beach Run, the Saudi Aramco’s flagship
Citizenship event in Europe.
Asia
Saudi Aramco is committed to making
important community and citizenship
contributions everywhere it has meaningful
operations throughout Asia. Ranging from
coral reef conservation in Okinawa, to
children’s medical and educational programs
in China, Malaysia and Korea, to replacing
vulnerable homes in rural Indonesia,
Saudi Aramco’s programs have served
thousands of workers, students, and at-risk
citizens in dozens of locations throughout
the region.
)GSE(
ecnanrevog
dna
laicos
,latnemnorivne
[Page 87]
85
Saudi Aramco's
procurement
supports
a diversified
energy sector
Responsible procurement The Company aims to cultivate local business
with a goal of 70% of all expenditures in the
Saudi Aramco’s commitment to ethical
Kingdom being locally sourced over the next
business practices extends to its supply chain
three years.
through its Supplier Code of Conduct which
outlines mandatory policies on environmental, The Company aims to
health and safety issues, fair trade practices, The Company has engaged with its business
ethical sourcing, conflicts of interest, bribery, partners and suppliers to support local cultivate local business
kickbacks, gifts and fraud, monitoring and community development and recruitment
compliance. Saudi Aramco’s Supplier Code of through a model of scholarship and vocation with a goal of 70% of
Conduct promotes the Company’s values and training in different industries. The Saudi
extends and maintains its ethical standards Arabian Drilling Academy (SADA), a Saudi all expenditures in the
across the supplier network, enabling long- Aramco-led collaboration, is working to train
term, mutually beneficial partnerships. thousands of skilled exploration, drilling Kingdom being locally
This requires that the Company’s vendors and workover talent in alignment with the
sourced over the next
and suppliers, and those of the Company’s Saudi Vision 2030 workforce development
subsidiaries, meet the required standards aims. In September 2018 the first cohort of
three years
of ethics when it comes to anti-bribery and 132 drillers and service people graduated
anti-corruption, as well as compliance with from SADA.
all local legislation around human rights.
The Company is a major employer in Saudi
Supply chain localization Arabia, and as part of the country’s Vision
In support of the Company’s initiative to 2030, which includes goals for increasing
develop local supply chains to enhance its female participation in the workforce, the
long-term commercial interests and reduce Company has helped develop skilled female
procurement costs, in 2015 the Company talent. The Company created the Leading
launched its In-Kingdom Total Value Add National Academy (LNA) as a public-private
Program (iktva), designed to increase the partnership under the National Specialized
use of in-Kingdom suppliers of goods and Partnership Academies (NSPA) focusing on
services. In 2019, the iktva metric reached providing women with industrial and
56%. The Company believes that the scale technical skills training as well as soft skills
of the Company’s procurement program can including speaking with impact, emotional
support building a diversified energy sector intelligence and business acumen. Since
in the Kingdom. In addition, the Company inception, NSPA academies have graduated
believes this program not only has a positive over 18,000 trainees and currently have over
impact on the Kingdom’s economy but also 5,000 active students in 18 specialized
supports the Company’s efforts to improve institutions. LNA provides curricula in supply
the efficiency and effectiveness of its supply chain, electrical, instrument, mechanical,
chain. The program aims to increase the use laboratory science, and HSE disciplines. As
of in-Kingdom suppliers, expand local supply
the first female-focused industrial training
chain capabilities and capacities, elevate the
center in Saudi Arabia, LNA is paving the
training and hiring of Saudi nationals, drive
way to build inclusion into even the most
collaboration in the industry through supplier
male-dominated industrial sectors.
development, bring new innovations to the
Kingdom through R&D and promote the
Kingdom as an export hub.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 90]
88
Risk management
Risk objectives Enterprise risk management framework
Saudi Aramco operates in an industry
characterized by price volatility, hazardous
operations, and uncertain project outcomes.
Taking informed risks is an inherent and Board
necessary part of doing business. Saudi
Aramco manages its strategic, operational,
compliance and financial risks by continuously
assessing them and undertaking appropriate Risk and HSE Committee Audit Committee
responses. Business decisions are made
after due consideration of rewards and
associated risks.
Risk management framework
The Board of Directors provides risk oversight Executive team
as a component of its strategic leadership.
The Risk & HSE Committee of the Board
oversees the risk management framework
and monitors specific major risks. Management Committee
The primary role of the Risk and HSE
Committee is to monitor overall management
of risk and activities relating to health, safety
and the environment and to assist the Board The framework is based on the Three Lines of Defense model
of Directors with:
(i) l eadership, direction, and oversight with
respect to Saudi Aramco’s risk appetite, First line of defense: Second line of defense: Third line of defense:
risk tolerance, risk framework and risk Business assets Risk and control Internal audit
strategy; and facilities functions
(ii) g overnance and management of strategic
and operational risks and sustainability; Identify and manage risk Monitor and report risk, Provide independent assurance
and and provide guidance on the effectiveness of internal
control systems
(iii) f ostering a culture within Saudi Aramco
that emphasizes and demonstrates the
benefits of risk management.
The Audit Committee focuses on financial
risks, including financial reporting and
treasury, as well as on internal and external
compliance.
ksir
[TABLE DATA]
The framework is based on the Th | ree Lines of Defense model
First line of defense:
Business assets
and facilities
Identify and manage risk
Second line of defense:
Risk and control
functions
Monitor and report risk,
and provide guidance
Third line of defense:
Internal audit
Provide independent assurance
on the effectiveness of internal
control systems
[Page 91]
89
The Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) corporate risks. Annually, the Management Principal risk categories
framework follows the “Three Lines of Committee reviews the composition of the
Defense” concept. The operating businesses top risks, taking into consideration risks
and support organizations form the first line reported from the businesses, and a 1
of defense, and, as risk owners, have primary top-down scan for new and emerging risks.
responsibility for identifying and managing The Management Committee is updated
their risks. The second line of defense quarterly on individual risks, and every year
comprises dedicated risk management several risks are presented to the Management Risks related to
functions, responsible for monitoring and Committee and the Board’s Risk & HSE
Saudi Aramco’s operations
reporting on risks, and providing guidance Committee.
to risk owners. Risk management functions
include Loss Prevention, Environmental Decision making
Protection, Information Security, Corporate
To reduce planning uncertainty and help
Emergency Management and Continuity,
manage the variability of outcomes,
Corporate Compliance, and Financial Risk See page 90
Saudi Aramco has embedded risk assessment
Management organizations, as well as the
into its strategic and investment planning.
Corporate ERM Group. Internal Audit, as the
Strategic scenarios are stress-tested, and 2
third line of defense, provides management
the investment portfolio is optimized using
and the Audit Committee with independent
stochastic risk modeling. Individual projects
assurance on the effectiveness of internal
and investments pass through a gated Risks related to
control systems.
decision process that includes risk assessments
Saudi Aramco’s industry and
and value assurance reviews.
Management-level oversight of the ERM
regulatory environment
framework is provided by the Management
Risk factors
Committee, which is chaired by the President
& CEO. He also chairs the HSSE Committee, The following risks, which are identified as
which oversees health, safety, security and material, do not necessarily comprise all the
environmental risk management, the Strategy risks affecting Saudi Aramco. There may be See page 98
Council, which reviews matters of strategic additional risks that Saudi Aramco is currently
risk, and the Conflicts of Interest and not aware of, or that Saudi Aramco currently
Business Ethics Committee. Various other believes are immaterial, which may in the 3
management-level committees provide future become material or affect
oversight of risk-related topics, such as the Saudi Aramco’s business, financial position
Climate Initiatives Steering Committee, and and results of operations or the market price
the Information Security Risk Management of the shares. As a result of these and Risks related to
Steering Committee. other risks, the forward-looking events and
Saudi Aramco’s shares
circumstances discussed in this Annual Report
Business risk assessment might not occur in the way Saudi Aramco
expects, or at all. All forward-looking
The means by which individual organizations
statements in this Annual Report should be
identify, assess, mitigate, monitor and report
considered in light of these explanations
risks to the achievement of business
and reliance should not be placed on any See page 104
objectives is integrated into Saudi Aramco’s
forward-looking statements.
annual planning cycle through a system that
follows ISO 31000 principles and guidelines.
The risks described herein are not presented
This includes the escalation, as appropriate,
in order of priority based on their importance
of risk ownership through Saudi Aramco’s
or expected effect on Saudi Aramco.
organizational levels, resulting in a hierarchy
of risks from individual departmental risks to
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 92]
90
Risk factors
1
Risks related to Saudi Aramco’s operations
1.1. Risks related to crude oil Sales of crude oil are the largest component (see – Risks related to environmental
supply and demand of Saudi Aramco’s consolidated revenue and protection, health and safety laws and
other income related to sales. Accordingly, regulations);
Saudi Aramco’s results of operations and
Saudi Aramco’s results of operations • prices of alternative energies, including
cash flow are significantly impacted by the
and cash flow are significantly renewable energy;
price at which it is able to sell crude oil.
impacted by international crude oil
• the electrification of transportation,
supply and demand and the price
International crude oil supply and demand technological developments in the cost or
at which it sells crude oil.
and the sales price for crude oil are affected endurance of fuel cells for electric vehicles
by many factors that are beyond Saudi Aramco’s and changes in transportation-mode
control, including: preferences, including ride-sharing;
• market expectations with respect to • weather conditions affecting supply and
future supply of petroleum and petroleum demand;
products, demand and price changes,
• fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar,
including future demand for petroleum
the currency in which crude oil is priced
products in Asia;
globally; and
• global economic and political conditions
• trading activities in the crude oil
and geopolitical events, including any that
commodities market.
impact international trade (including trade
routes);
International crude oil prices have fluctuated
• decisions regarding production levels by significantly in the past and may remain
the Kingdom or other producing states (the volatile. Brent crude oil prices witnessed a
Kingdom is a member country of OPEC) significant decline between mid-2014 and early
see Section 3: Results and performance; 2016, with Brent crude oil prices declining from
a monthly average of $112.0 per barrel in June
• the impact of natural disasters and public
2014 to a monthly average of $31.9 per barrel
health pandemics or epidemics (such as the
in January 2016. From January 2016 to early
novel strain of coronavirus known as
March 2020, Brent crude oil prices generally
Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)) on
fluctuated between $50.0 and $75.0 per
supply and demand for crude oil and
barrel. However, most recently, the Brent crude
general economic conditions;
oil price fell below $37.0 per barrel in mid-
• the development of new crude oil March 2020, largely in response to concerns
exploration, production and transportation about coronavirus, its potential impact on
methods or technological advancements worldwide demand for oil and economic
in existing methods, including hydraulic activity, a breakdown in relations among some
fracturing or “fracking”; of the world’s largest oil producing countries
and a decision by the Company to reduce its
• capital investments of oil and gas companies
official selling prices.
relating to the exploration, development
and production of crude oil reserves;
Fluctuations in the price at which Saudi Aramco
• the impact of climate change on the sells crude oil could cause Saudi Aramco’s
demand for, and price of, hydrocarbons results of operations and cash flow to vary
(see – Risks related to climate change); significantly. In addition, decreases in the price
at which Saudi Aramco sells its crude oil could
• changes to environmental or other
have a material adverse effect on Saudi
regulations or laws applicable to crude oil
Aramco’s results of operations and cash flow.
and related products or the energy industry
ksir
[TABLE DATA]
1 | Risks related to Saudi Aramco’s operations
[Page 93]
91
1.2. Risks related to economic Saudi Aramco exports a majority of its crude outbreak of the novel strain of coronavirus
and political developments oil and refined products to customers in Asia. known as Coronavirus disease 2019
In addition, Saudi Aramco expects to export (COVID-19)), Saudi Aramco may experience
in Asia
additional crude to Asia as new downstream a material reduction in demand for its
assets in Asia commence operations. products by its customers located in that
Saudi Aramco exports a substantial
region. Moreover, any such development in
portion of its crude oil and refined
Saudi Aramco expects crude exports to other parts of the world (including political
products to customers in Asia, and
customers in Asia to continue to constitute a and social instability or armed conflict in the
adverse economic or political
significant percentage of its total export and MENA region) may result in other producers
developments in Asia could impact production volumes. Furthermore, the refined, supplying surplus capacity to Asia, thereby
Saudi Aramco’s results of operations.
chemical and petrochemical products that are increasing competition for customers in Asia
produced at Saudi Aramco’s joint ventures and and affecting the prices at which Saudi
international operations in Asia are generally Aramco sells its products to customers there.
sold locally and exported to other Asian Any decrease in demand for Saudi Aramco’s
countries. If there is a slowdown in economic products in Asia could have a material adverse
growth, an economic downturn or recession effect on its business, financial position and
or other adverse economic or political results of operations.
development in Asia (including the recent
1.3. Risks related to competition The sale of crude oil outside the Kingdom In addition, Saudi Aramco’s refineries in
is very competitive. Saudi Aramco’s primary its Downstream segment are subject to
Saudi Aramco operates in a highly competitors for the sale of crude oil outside competition in the geographies to which
competitive environment. the Kingdom include NOCs and IOCs, many they sell refined products or petrochemicals.
Competitive pressure could have a of which have substantial crude oil reserves Competition is primarily from other refineries
material adverse impact on the price and financial resources. The primary factors located in, or in close proximity to, the
at which it sells crude oil and other driving competition are global crude oil supply relevant market, and in the case of refineries
products. and demand and the quality of the crude oil that are net importers, from other international
produced, which impacts the relative value of producers. Operating efficiencies and
the crude oil to be used in the production of production costs are the key factors affecting
diesel, gasoline and other refined products. competition in the refined products and
chemicals markets. Accordingly, if the
Other factors that could affect competition in operating efficiencies and production costs of
the crude oil marketplace include additional Saudi Aramco’s refineries are not sufficiently
discoveries of crude oil reserves by Saudi competitive in the geographies they serve,
Aramco’s competitors, the cost of shale and Saudi Aramco’s business, financial position
other unconventional production, new and results of operations could be materially
technologies that increase the viability of and adversely impacted.
reserves or reduce production costs, political
and economic factors and other factors
outside Saudi Aramco’s control. Increased
competitive pressures could have a material
adverse impact on prices at which Saudi
Aramco can sell crude oil and its regional
and global market share.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 94]
92
1.4. Risks related to Saudi Aramco’s reserve estimates conform There can be no assurance that the
hydrocarbon reserves to the SPE-PRMS definitions and guidelines, interpretations, assumptions and judgments
which are the internationally recognized utilized by Saudi Aramco to estimate proved
estimation
industry standards promulgated by the reserves will prove to be accurate. Any
Society of Petroleum Engineers, the American significant deviation from these interpretations,
Estimates of proved hydrocarbon
Association of Petroleum Geologists, the assumptions or judgments could materially
reserves depend on significant
World Petroleum Council, the Society of affect the estimated quantity or value of
interpretations, assumptions and
Petroleum Evaluation Engineers, the Society Saudi Aramco’s proved reserves. In addition,
judgments. Any significant deviation
of Exploration Geophysicists, the Society of these estimates could change due to new
or changes in existing economic and
Petrophysicists and Well Log Analysts and the information from production or drilling
operating conditions could affect
European Association of Geoscientists and activities, changes in economic factors,
the estimated quantity and value
Engineers. Reserve estimation is an inherently including changes in the price of
of Saudi Aramco’s proved reserves.
complex process that principally relies on hydrocarbons, changes to laws, regulations
a combination of knowledge, experience or the terms of the Concession or other
and engineering judgment. Saudi Aramco’s events. Further, declining hydrocarbon prices
estimates of the quantity of its proved may cause certain proved reserves to no
hydrocarbon reserves depend on significant longer be considered commercially viable,
interpretations, assumptions and judgments which could result in downward adjustments
relating to available geological, geophysical, to Saudi Aramco’s estimates of its proved
engineering, contractual, economic and other reserves, impairment of its assets or changes
information, and take into account existing to Saudi Aramco’s capital expenditures and
economic and operating conditions and production plans. Moreover, proved reserves
commercial viability as at the date the reserve estimates are subject to change due to
estimates are made. changes in published rules or changes in
guidelines. Any material reduction in the
quantity or value of Saudi Aramco’s proved
reserves could affect its business.
1.5. Risks related to operational Saudi Aramco is subject to operational risks subcontractor was responsible for the
risks and hazards common in the oil and gas industry, including: damage, Saudi Aramco’s recourse to the
relevant subcontractor may be limited by
• crude oil or gas spills, pipeline leaks and
contract or the financial viability of such
Saudi Aramco is subject to ruptures, storage tank leaks, and accidents
subcontractor. Such occurrences could also
operational risks and hazards that involving explosions, fires, blow outs and
interrupt Saudi Aramco’s operations, delay
may have a significant impact on surface cratering;
its projects or damage Saudi Aramco’s
its operations or result in significant
• power shortages or failures; reputation, which could have a material
liabilities and costs.
adverse effect on its business.
• mechanical or equipment failures;
• transportation interruptions and accidents; Furthermore, the majority of Saudi Aramco’s
assets are located in the Kingdom and it relies
• tropical monsoons, storms, floods and
heavily on a cross-country pipeline system and
other natural disasters; and
terminal facilities to transport crude oil and
• chemical spills, discharges or releases of products through the Kingdom. Saudi Aramco
toxic or hazardous substances or gases. also depends on critical assets to process its
crude oil, such as the Abqaiq facility, which is
These risks could result in damage to, or Saudi Aramco’s largest oil processing facility.
destruction of, Saudi Aramco’s properties The East-West pipeline, the Shaybah NGL
and facilities, death or injury to people and facility, the Abqaiq facility and the Khurais
harm to the environment, which could have processing facility have recently been subject
a significant impact on Saudi Aramco’s to attacks. If Saudi Aramco’s critical transport
operations or result in significant liabilities and systems or processing facilities were subject to
remediation costs. In addition, Saudi Aramco a disruption, it could have a material adverse
is not insured against all risks and insurance effect on Saudi Aramco’s business, financial
in connection with certain risks and hazards position and results of operations. See – Risks
may not be available. See – Risks related related to terrorism, armed conflict and
to insufficient insurance. To the extent a sabotage.
ksir
[Page 95]
93
1.6. Risks related to insufficient Saudi Aramco insures against risk primarily not maintain business interruption insurance
insurance by self-insuring through its captive insurance for disruptions to its operations and certain of
subsidiary, Stellar, which provides insurance its operations are insured separately from the
exclusively to Saudi Aramco. Saudi Aramco rest of Saudi Aramco’s business. Furthermore,
Saudi Aramco could be subject
also obtains insurance in certain areas from there can be no assurance that Saudi Aramco
to losses from risks related to
third party providers in excess of the coverage can continue to renew its existing levels of
insufficient insurance.
provided through Stellar. coverage on commercially acceptable terms,
or at all. As a result, Saudi Aramco could
Saudi Aramco does not insure against all risks incur significant losses from uninsured risks
and its insurance may not protect it against or risks for which its insurance does not cover
liability from all potential events, particularly the entire loss. Any such losses could have
catastrophic events such as major crude oil a material adverse effect on Saudi Aramco’s
spills, environmental disasters, terrorist attacks business, financial position and results
or acts of war. In addition, Saudi Aramco does of operations.
1.7. Risks related to achieving Saudi Aramco’s ability to achieve its strategic These challenges have led and could lead
growth objectives growth objectives depends, in large part, to delays in the completion of projects and
on the successful, timely and cost effective increased project costs. If projects are
delivery of capital projects, especially those delayed, cost more than expected or do not
Saudi Aramco’s ability to achieve its
which are large and complex, which are generate the expected return, Saudi Aramco’s
strategic growth objectives depends
carried out by Saudi Aramco or by Saudi operations and expected levels of production
on the successful delivery of current
Aramco along with joint venture or affiliate could be impacted. These occurrences could
and future projects.
partners. Saudi Aramco faces numerous result in Saudi Aramco reviewing and
challenges in developing such projects, recognizing impairments on its projects,
including: assuming liabilities of joint venture or affiliate
partners or other consequences, any of
• constraints on the availability and cost
which could have a material adverse effect
of skilled labor, contractors, materials,
on Saudi Aramco’s business, financial position
equipment and facilities, particularly during
and results of operations.
periods of global expansion in the oil and
gas or chemicals industry;
In addition, many of Saudi Aramco’s projects
• its ability to obtain funding necessary for require significant capital expenditures. If cash
the implementation of the relevant project flow from operating activities and funds from
on terms acceptable to it, or at all; external financial resources are not sufficient
to cover Saudi Aramco’s capital expenditure
• fluctuations in the market prices for
requirements, Saudi Aramco may be required
hydrocarbons, which may impact its ability
to reallocate available capital among its
to finance its projects from its cash flow
projects or modify its capital expenditure
from operating activities;
plans, which may result in delays to, or
• difficulties in obtaining necessary permits, cancellation of, certain projects or deferral
complying with applicable regulations and of certain capital expenditures. Any change
changes to applicable law or regulations; to Saudi Aramco’s capital expenditure plans
could, in turn, have a material adverse effect
• difficulties coordinating multiple
on Saudi Aramco’s growth objectives and
contractors and sub-contractors involved in
its business, financial position and results
complex projects;
of operations.
• making economic estimates or assumptions
based on data or conditions, including
crude oil and gas price assumptions, which
may change; and
• undertaking projects or ventures in new
lines of business in which Saudi Aramco
has limited or no prior operating experience.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 96]
94
1.8. Risks related to litigation Saudi Aramco has been subject to significant In addition, increasing attention on climate
litigation, primarily in the United States and change risks may result in an increased
Saudi Aramco has been subject the Kingdom. Some of the most significant possibility of litigation against Saudi Aramco
to litigation in the past and may U.S. litigation involved allegations of violations and its affiliated companies. Claims relating
be again in the future. of antitrust laws arising, in part, from the to climate change matters have been filed
Kingdom’s membership and participation against companies in the oil and gas industry
in OPEC. Such antitrust litigation sought by private parties, shareholders of such
extensive relief, including treble damages, companies, public interest organizations, cities
divestiture of assets in the United States and and other localities, especially in the United
disgorgement of profits. If granted, this relief States, including claims that the extraction
could have had a material adverse impact on and development of fossil fuels has increased
Saudi Aramco. To date, the OPEC-related climate change. Some of these claims demand
antitrust lawsuits have been dismissed on the that the defendants pay financial amounts
basis of various sovereign defenses under as compensation for alleged past and future
U.S. law, including the political question and damages resulting from climate change. On
the act of state doctrines, sovereign immunity July 2, 2018, Motiva, Saudi Aramco’s refining
under the FSIA and other legal defenses. subsidiary in the United States, was named
However, there is no assurance that as a defendant in such a claim brought by
Saudi Aramco will prevail in its assertion of the State of Rhode Island against multiple
these defenses in the future and any adverse companies in the oil and gas industry. Claims
judgment or settlement could have an adverse such as these could grow in number and
effect on Saudi Aramco’s business, financial Saudi Aramco could be the subject of similar
position and results of operations. claims in the United States or elsewhere in
the future.
In February 2019, members of the U.S. House
of Representatives introduced a bill that seeks Further, Saudi Aramco’s investors could assert
to make unlawful certain conduct by foreign claims against it and its Directors and Senior
states, state instrumentalities and state Executives alleging breaches of applicable
agents, such as taking action collectively laws and regulations, or other legal theories.
to reduce the production of oil. The draft bill
would expressly remove or weaken certain Litigation in a variety of jurisdictions could
sovereign defenses, including sovereign result in substantial costs (including civil or
immunity under the FSIA. If this or any other criminal penalties, or both, damages or the
legislation affecting Saudi Aramco’s legal imposition of import trade measures), require
liability were to become law and result in Saudi Aramco to devote substantial resources
litigation against Saudi Aramco, such and divert management attention, which
litigation, including any adverse judgment may have a material adverse effect on
or settlement, could have a material adverse Saudi Aramco’s business, financial position
effect on Saudi Aramco’s business, financial and results of operations. For further details
position and results of operations. on litigation, see Section 8: Additional
Information.
1.9. Risks related to the The Government has recently adopted several production royalties and excise and other
comparability of financial changes to the fiscal regime under which taxes and income tax. For a more detailed
Saudi Aramco operates. These changes discussion of the fiscal regime changes and
periods presented
materially impact Saudi Aramco’s results of their effect on Saudi Aramco’s consolidated
operations and make its consolidated financial financial statements please see Section 3:
Saudi Aramco’s historical results
statements for certain periods less comparable, Results and performance and Section 7:
of operations may not be easily
particularly with respect to revenue, Financial statements.
compared from year to year.
ksir
[Page 97]
95
1.10. Risks related to Saudi Aramco has engaged in and may Failure to realize all of the anticipated benefits
acquisitions continue to engage in acquisitions of of the acquisition may impact Saudi Aramco’s
businesses, technologies, services, products financial performance and prospects, including
and other assets from time to time. Any such the growth of its downstream business.
Saudi Aramco may not realize
acquisition entails various risks, including that
some or all of the expected benefits
Saudi Aramco may not be able to accurately Immediately following the closing of the
of recent or future acquisitions,
assess the value, strengths and weaknesses acquisition of the PIF’s 70% equity interest including with respect to SABIC.
of the acquisition or investment targets, in SABIC, Saudi Aramco could exceed its
effectively integrate the purchased businesses targeted Gearing ratio. While Saudi Aramco
or assets, achieve the expected synergies or intends to maintain its Gearing ratio to within
recover the purchase costs of the acquired its targeted range of 5% to 15%, there can
businesses or assets. Saudi Aramco may also be no assurance that it will be able to do so.
incur unanticipated costs or assume unexpected Failure to lower the Gearing ratio may impact
liabilities and losses in connection with any Saudi Aramco’s financial performance and
business or asset it acquires, including in its results of operations.
relation to the retention of key employees,
legal contingencies (such as contractual, In addition, the shareholding of SABIC will
financial, regulatory, environmental or other require significant management attention.
obligations and liabilities) and risks related to The diversion of management’s attention
the acquired business, and the maintenance and any delays or difficulties encountered
and integration of procedures, controls and in connection with SABIC’s operations could
quality standards. These difficulties could have a material adverse effect on Saudi
impact Saudi Aramco’s ongoing business, Aramco’s business, financial position and
distract its management and employees and results of operations.
increase its expenses which could, in turn,
have a material adverse effect on Saudi Furthermore, Saudi Aramco will fund a
Aramco’s business, financial position and portion of the purchase price of its interests
results of operations. in SABIC with promissory notes issued
by Saudi Aramco in favor of the PIF. The
On March 27, 2019, the Company entered promissory notes are fully transferable and
into a purchase agreement with the PIF to assignable and may be pledged by the PIF,
acquire the PIF’s 70% equity interest in SABIC subject to Saudi Aramco’s right of first refusal
for total consideration of $69.1 billion. The to purchase the promissory notes if the
proposed acquisition has now received PIF receives any offer or commitment of
unconditional clearance in all jurisdictions in financing which would include a transfer of
which pre-notification antitrust filings are the promissory notes. The PIF could receive an
required. Closing of the proposed acquisition offer or commitment of financing at any time.
is subject to the remaining customary closing
conditions and is currently expected to occur Following the proposed acquisition, SABIC
in the first half of 2020. For the acquisition to is expected to remain a listed company
be successful for Saudi Aramco, Saudi Aramco on Tadawul and its board of directors will
will need to manage its ownership stake in continue to owe duties to its minority
SABIC in a manner which will support the shareholders. The interests of SABIC’s
optimization of SABIC’s performance, minority shareholders may not align with
including with respect to the technology those of Saudi Aramco.
capabilities, sales and marketing platforms
and technical and support functions of each
company. The realization of such benefits may
be affected by a number of factors, many of
which are beyond Saudi Aramco’s control.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 98]
96
1.11. Risks related to foreign A substantial portion of Saudi Aramco’s • adverse changes in economic and trade
operations downstream operations is conducted outside sanctions, export controls and national
the Kingdom. Risks inherent in operating security measures resulting in business
in several countries include: disruptions, including delays or denials
Saudi Aramco is exposed to risks
of import or export licenses or blocked
related to operating in several • complying with, and managing changes
or rejected financial transactions;
countries. to and developments in, a variety of laws
and regulations, including price regulations • conducting business through a number
and data privacy, changes in environmental of subsidiaries, joint operations and joint
regulations, forced divestment of assets, ventures and challenges implementing
expropriation of property, cancellation Saudi Aramco’s policies and procedures
or forced renegotiation of contract rights; in such entities; and
• complying with tax regimes in multiple • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange
jurisdictions, the imposition of new or rates.
increased withholding or other taxes or
royalties on Saudi Aramco’s income; Operating in several countries also requires
significant management attention and
• the imposition of new, or changes to
resources. The occurrence of any of these
existing, transfer pricing regulations or the
risks may be burdensome and could have
imposition of new restrictions on foreign
a material adverse effect on Saudi Aramco’s
trade or investment;
business, financial position and results
of operations.
1.12. Risks related to sanctions Saudi Aramco currently conducts business, There can be no assurance that Saudi Aramco’s
and anti-bribery and anti- and could in the future decide to take part corporate governance and compliance policies
in new business activities, in locations where (including with respect to sanctions and trade
corruption regimes
certain parties are subject to sanctions and restrictions, anti-bribery and anti-corruption)
trade restrictions imposed by the United will protect it from improper conduct of
Violations of applicable sanctions
States, the European Union and other its employees or business partners. If Saudi
and trade restrictions, as well as
sanctioning bodies. Laws and regulations Aramco were to be sanctioned in the future,
anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws,
governing sanctions and trade restrictions as a result of its transactions with other
could adversely affect Saudi Aramco.
are complex and are subject to change. parties or otherwise, such sanctions could
Saudi Aramco is currently pursuing investment result in asset freezes against Saudi Aramco,
and joint venture opportunities in oil and restrictions on investors trading securities
gas and LNG projects located in Russia and issued by Saudi Aramco, substantial civil or
with Russian counterparties. Certain Russian criminal penalties, or both, and could have
individuals and entities are subject to a a material adverse effect on Saudi Aramco’s
number of sanctions and trade restrictions business and financial position.
imposed by the United States and the
European Union targeting the Russian
financial, defense and energy sectors.
1.13. Risks related to chemicals Concerns regarding chemicals and plastics, complying with more restrictive regulations,
and plastics regulations including their safe use and potential impact delayed product launches, lack of market
on the environment, reflect a growing trend acceptance, lower sales volumes or
in societal demands for increasing levels of discontinuance of chemicals or plastics
Increased concerns regarding the
product safety, environmental protection products, continued pressure for more
safe use of chemicals and plastics
and recycling. These concerns have led to stringent regulatory intervention and
and their potential impact on the
more restrictive regulations and could lead increased litigation. These consequences
environment have resulted in more
to new regulations. They could also manifest could also have an adverse effect on Saudi
restrictive regulations and could lead
themselves in shareholder proposals, delays Aramco’s business, financial position, results
to new regulations.
or failures in obtaining or retaining regulatory of operations and reputation.
approvals, increased costs related to
ksir
[Page 99]
97
1.14. Risks related to Saudi Aramco operates in a competitive experienced and skilled oil and gas
dependence on Senior environment, and its success depends upon its professionals and Saudi Aramco may have
ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and difficulty hiring and retaining such individuals
Management and key personnel
retain highly-qualified Senior Management with the desired expertise or experience.
and key personnel. Saudi Aramco’s Senior If Saudi Aramco experiences a large number
Saudi Aramco is dependent on Senior
Management and key personnel may of retirements or departures of its oil and gas
Management and key personnel.
voluntarily terminate their employment with experts in a relatively short period of time,
Saudi Aramco or leave their positions due to attracting and retaining a sufficient number
reasons beyond Saudi Aramco’s control. In of replacement personnel may be challenging.
addition, from time to time, certain members If Saudi Aramco is unable to hire and retain
of Saudi Aramco’s Senior Management have Senior Management and key personnel with
resigned from their position at Saudi Aramco requisite skills and expertise, it could have
in order to accept employment in various a material adverse effect on Saudi Aramco’s
positions in the Government. In addition, business, financial position and results
there is an international shortage of of operations.
1.15. Risks related to managing Saudi Aramco’s management team has limited significant attention from Saudi Aramco’s
a public company experience managing a public company, Senior Management and could divert their
interacting with investors and complying attention from the day-to-day management
with the increasingly complex laws, of Saudi Aramco’s business. In addition,
Saudi Aramco’s management team
regulations and other obligations pertaining failure to comply in a timely manner with
has limited experience managing
to public companies. As a public company, the regulations and disclosure requirements
a public company.
Saudi Aramco is subject to significant imposed on listed companies will expose
regulatory oversight and reporting obligations Saudi Aramco to regulatory sanctions and
under Capital Market Authority (CMA) rules, fines. Any of these impacts could have
securities laws and the continuous scrutiny of a material adverse effect on Saudi Aramco’s
securities analysts and investors. These new business, financial position or results
obligations and constituents will require of operations.
1.16. Risks related to IT systems Saudi Aramco relies on the security of critical to the necessary resources could successfully
information and operational technology penetrate Saudi Aramco systems. Attempts
Saudi Aramco’s operations are systems for, among other things, the to gain unauthorized access to Saudi Aramco
dependent on the reliability and exploration, development, production, networks have been successful in the past,
security of its IT systems. storage and distribution of hydrocarbons; including a 2012 cyberattack in which Saudi
the processing, use and security of financial Aramco resorted to manual procedures for
records, proprietary information, intellectual certain non-operational related matters while
property, personal information and operating the breach was contained. To date, none of
data; and communications with management, these attempts have been material to Saudi
personnel and business partners. Cyber Aramco’s financial performance or reputation.
incidents may negatively impact these or Nonetheless, the nature and breadth of any
other functions and, particularly in relation potential future cyberattack remain unknown
to industrial control systems, may result in and could result in significant costs, including
physical damage, injury or loss of life and investigation and remediation expenses,
environmental harm. Saudi Aramco’s systems regulatory scrutiny, legal liability and the loss
are a high profile target for sophisticated of personal or sensitive business or third-party
cyberattacks by nation states, criminal hackers information, and could have a material
and competitors, and Saudi Aramco routinely adverse effect on Saudi Aramco’s operations
fends off malicious attempts to gain and reputation. For further information on
unauthorized systems access. However, there Saudi Aramco’s cybersecurity, see Section 4:
is a risk that determined attackers with access Environmental, social and governance (ESG).
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 100]
98
2
Risks related to Saudi Aramco’s industry and regulatory environment
2.1. Risks related to The Government determines the Kingdom’s operational adjustments. Saudi Aramco incurs
Government-set maximum maximum level of crude oil production in substantial costs to maintain MSC and has
the exercise of its sovereign prerogative. historically utilized a significant amount of
level of crude oil production
Accordingly, the Government may in its sole this spare capacity. However, there can be
and target MSC
discretion increase or decrease the Kingdom’s no assurance that it will utilize spare capacity
maximum crude oil production at any time in the future. In addition, the Government
The Government determines the based on its sovereign energy security goals has decided in the past and may in the future
Kingdom’s maximum level of crude or for any other reason, which may be decide to increase target MSC.
oil production and target MSC. influenced by, among other things, global
economic and political conditions and their The Government’s decisions regarding
corresponding impact on the Kingdom’s crude oil production and spare capacity,
policy and strategic decisions with respect and Saudi Aramco’s costs of complying with
to exploration, development and production such decisions, may not maximize returns for
of crude oil reserves. Saudi Aramco. For example, Saudi Aramco
may be precluded from producing more
In addition, in order to facilitate rapid changes crude oil in response to either a decrease or
in production volumes, the Government increase in prices, which may limit its ability
requires Saudi Aramco to maintain MSC in to generate additional revenue or to increase
accordance with the Hydrocarbons Law. The its production of downstream products. In
Government has the exclusive authority to addition, a decision to increase the Kingdom’s
set MSC. MSC refers to the average maximum MSC could require Saudi Aramco to make
number of barrels per day of crude oil that significant capital expenditures to build new
can be produced for one year during any infrastructure and facilities. Any of these
future planning period, after taking into actions could have a material adverse effect
account all planned capital expenditures and on Saudi Aramco’s business, financial position
maintenance, repair and operating costs, and results of operations.
and after being given three months to make
2.2. Risks related to the The hydrocarbon industry is the single largest forgoes as a result of selling crude oil and
Kingdom’s public finances contributor to the Kingdom’s economy. The certain refined products in the Kingdom at
Government is expected to continue to rely regulated prices, which further impacts the
and the hydrocarbon industry
on royalties, taxes and other income from the Kingdom’s cash flow. Effective January 1,
hydrocarbon industry for a significant portion 2020, the marginal royalty rates applicable
The Kingdom’s public finances are
of its revenue. Any change in crude oil, to crude oil and condensate production were
highly connected to the hydrocarbon
condensate, NGL, oil product, chemical and modified, the tax rate applicable to
industry.
natural gas prices or other occurrences that Saudi Aramco’s downstream business was
negatively affect Saudi Aramco’s results of reduced and the Government expanded the
operations could materially affect the equalization mechanism to include LPGs and
macroeconomic indicators of the Kingdom, certain other products. Moreover, effective
including GDP, balance of payments and January 1, 2017, the Government guaranteed
foreign trade and the amount of cash amounts due to Saudi Aramco with respect
available to the Government. to hydrocarbon products sales from various
Government and semi-Government entities,
Changes made to the Kingdom’s tax regime and separate legal entities in which the
for hydrocarbon producers and the royalty Government has share ownership or control.
rate to which Saudi Aramco is subject, which A shortfall in funding to the Government
became effective on January 1, 2017, seek to or a decision to seek more revenue from
align the fiscal regime to which Saudi Aramco hydrocarbons may lead the Government
is subject with tax and royalty rates that are to change the fiscal regime to which
customary in other hydrocarbon producing hydrocarbon producers in the Kingdom,
jurisdictions. In addition, effective January 1, including Saudi Aramco, are subject. Any such
2017, the Government implemented an change could have a material adverse effect
equalization mechanism to compensate on Saudi Aramco’s business, financial position
Saudi Aramco for the revenue it directly and results of operations.
ksir
[TABLE DATA]
2 | Risks related to Saudi Aramco’s industry and regulatory environment
[Page 101]
99
2.3. Risks related to climate Climate change concerns manifested in public GHG-related laws and regulations has been
change sentiment, government policies, laws and in a state of constant re-assessment and,
regulations, international agreements and in some cases, it is difficult to predict with
treaties and other actions may reduce global certainty the ultimate impact GHG-related
Climate change concerns and impacts
demand for hydrocarbons and propel a shift laws, regulations and international
could reduce global demand for
to lower carbon intensity fossil fuels such as agreements will have on Saudi Aramco.
hydrocarbons and hydrocarbon-
gas or alternative energy sources. In particular, In some of the areas in which Saudi Aramco based products and could cause
increasing pressure on governments to reduce operates such as the Netherlands, GHG
Saudi Aramco to incur costs or
GHG emissions has led to a variety of actions emissions are regulated by the European
invest additional capital.
that aim to reduce the use of fossil fuels, Union Emissions Trading Scheme. In the
including, among others, carbon emission cap future, areas in which Saudi Aramco operates
and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased that are not currently subject to GHG
energy efficiency standards and incentives regulation may become regulated and existing
and mandates for renewable energy and GHG regulations may become more stringent.
other alternative energy sources. In addition,
international agreements that aim to limit or Existing and future climate change concerns
reduce GHG emissions are currently in various and impacts, including physical impacts to
stages of implementation. For example, the infrastructure, and related laws, regulations,
Paris Agreement became effective in treaties, protocols, policies and other actions
November 2016, and many of the countries could shift demand to other fuels, reduce
that have ratified the Paris Agreement are demand for hydrocarbons and hydrocarbon-
adopting domestic measures to meet its based products, have a material adverse
goals, which include reducing their use effect on Saudi Aramco’s business, financial
of fossil fuels and increasing their use of position and results of operations.
alternative energy sources. The landscape of
2.4. Risks related to political Saudi Aramco is headquartered and conducts example, in May 2019, four oil tankers,
and social instability in the much of its business in the MENA region. including two owned by the Saudi National
The MENA region is strategically important Shipping Company – Bahri, were sabotaged
MENA region
geopolitically and has been subject to political near the Strait of Hormuz and, in July 2019,
and security concerns and social unrest, a British oil tanker was seized by Iranian forces
Political and social instability and
especially in recent years. For example, since in the Strait of Hormuz. In addition, in April
unrest and actual or potential armed
2011, a number of countries in the MENA and July 2018, Yemen’s Houthi group
conflicts in the MENA region and
region have witnessed significant social attacked tankers operated by the Saudi
other areas may affect Saudi Aramco’s
unrest, including widespread public National Shipping Company-Bahri off the
results of operations and financial
demonstrations, and, in certain cases, armed coast of Yemen. Any political or armed
position.
conflict, terrorist attacks, diplomatic disputes, conflict or other event, including those
foreign military intervention and a change described above, that impacts Saudi Aramco’s
of government. Armed conflict is currently use of the Strait of Hormuz, Suez Canal or
ongoing in Yemen, Iraq, Syria and Libya. Such other international shipping routes could have
social unrest and other political and security a material adverse effect on Saudi Aramco’s
concerns may not abate, may worsen and business, financial position and results
could spread to additional countries. Some of operations.
of Saudi Aramco’s facilities, infrastructure
and reserves are located near the borders of Moreover, the majority of Saudi Aramco’s
countries that have been or may be impacted. assets and operations are located in the
No assurance can be given that these political Kingdom and, accordingly, may be affected
or security concerns or social unrest will by the political, social and economic
not have a material adverse effect on conditions from time to time prevailing
Saudi Aramco’s business, financial position in or affecting the Kingdom or the wider
and results of operations. MENA region.
In addition, the majority of Saudi Aramco’s Furthermore, any of the events described
crude oil production is exported using above may contribute to instability in the
international supply routes. In particular, the MENA region and may have a material
Strait of Hormuz and the Suez Canal are key adverse effect on investors’ willingness to
shipping routes for Saudi Aramco’s crude oil invest in the Kingdom or companies that
and are located in areas subject to political are based in the Kingdom.
or armed conflict from time to time. For
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 102]
100
2.5. Risks related to terrorism, Saudi Aramco’s facilities have been targeted In addition, in May 2019 and in August 2019,
armed conflict and sabotage by terrorist and other attacks. In September the East-West pipeline and the Shaybah field,
2019, the Abqaiq facility and the Khurais respectively, were targeted by unmanned
processing facility were subject to attack by aerial vehicle attacks. These attacks resulted
Terrorism, armed conflict and
unmanned aerial vehicles and missiles. Abqaiq in fires and damage to the processing and
sabotage may materially and
is Saudi Aramco’s largest oil processing facility. cogeneration infrastructure at the Shaybah
adversely affect Saudi Aramco
The Khurais field is one of Saudi Aramco’s NGL facility. Furthermore, since 2017, areas
and the market price of the shares.
principal oil fields. These attacks resulted in of the Kingdom have been subject to ballistic
the temporary suspension of processing at missile and other aerial attacks from Yemen,
Abqaiq and Khurais. As a result, overall crude including areas of the Kingdom where Saudi
oil production and associated gas production Aramco has facilities or operations. In January
was reduced and Saudi Aramco took a 2020, missiles were launched from Yemen
number of actions to minimize the impact of towards Jazan, where Saudi Aramco operates
lower Arabian Light and Arabian Extra Light an integrated refinery and petrochemical
production by tapping into Saudi Aramco’s facility, which were intercepted before striking
inventories located outside the Kingdom any targets. Any additional terrorist or other
and swapping grades of deliveries to Arabian attacks could have a material adverse effect
Medium and Arabian Heavy. on Saudi Aramco’s business, financial position
and results of operations and could cause
Saudi Aramco to expend significant funds.
2.6. Risks related to The Government has directed, and may in contracts with any Government agency
Government-directed projects the future direct, Saudi Aramco to undertake or any arrangement for the furnishing of
projects or provide assistance for initiatives hydrocarbons, services or otherwise shall be
outside Saudi Aramco’s core business in on a commercial basis and on September 5,
The Government may direct Saudi
furtherance of the Government’s 2019, Saudi Aramco and the Government
Aramco to undertake projects or
macroeconomic, social or other objectives, entered into a framework agreement to
provide assistance for initiatives
leveraging Saudi Aramco’s know-how, govern the furnishing of services by Saudi
outside Saudi Aramco’s core business,
resources and operational capabilities. For Aramco to the Government. While these
which may not be consistent
instance, the Government has previously projects and initiatives have generally been
with Saudi Aramco’s immediate
directed Saudi Aramco to develop and of national importance to the Kingdom and
commercial objectives or profit
construct large infrastructure projects and in Saudi Aramco’s long-term commercial
maximization.
provide management, logistical and other interests, they have often been outside
technical assistance for certain Government Saudi Aramco’s core businesses and have not
initiatives. Prior to 2017, the Government always been consistent with its immediate
reimbursed Saudi Aramco for its costs commercial objectives or profit maximization.
incurred relating to such Government-directed If the Government directs Saudi Aramco
activities by allowing Saudi Aramco to reduce to undertake future projects other than on
its tax liability or, in some cases, its taxable a commercial basis, Saudi Aramco’s financial
income by the amount of costs incurred. position and results of operation may be
Beginning on December 24, 2017, the materially and adversely affected.
Concession requires that all Saudi Aramco
2.7. Risks related to the The oil and gas industry in the Kingdom agreeing on the terms of the extension), there
regulation of the oil and is a regulated industry. Any change in the is no assurance that the Government will not
Kingdom to the laws, regulations, policies or revoke the Concession in whole or in part
gas industry
practices relating to the oil and gas industry or adversely change Saudi Aramco’s rights
could have a material adverse effect on in respect of the Concession, which would
Saudi Aramco operates in a regulated
Saudi Aramco’s business, financial position have a significant effect on Saudi Aramco’s
industry and its business may be
and results of operations. In addition, business, financial position and results of
affected by regulatory changes.
although the Concession provides for an initial operations. Furthermore, if the Kingdom were
period of 40 years, which will be extended to take additional actions under its regulatory
by the Government for 20 years provided powers or change laws, regulations, policies
Saudi Aramco satisfies certain conditions or practices relating to the oil and gas
commensurate with current operating industry, Saudi Aramco’s business, financial
practices (and may be amended and extended position and results of operations could be
for an additional 40 years thereafter subject materially and adversely affected.
to Saudi Aramco and the Government
ksir
[Page 103]
101
2.8. Risks related to equalization The Concession requires Saudi Aramco Effective September 17, 2019, the
compensation to meet domestic demand for certain Government implemented an equalization
hydrocarbons, petroleum products and LPGs mechanism to compensate Saudi Aramco
through domestic production or imports. for the revenue it directly forgoes as a result
The mechanism for equalization
In addition, pursuant to the Kingdom’s of selling Regulated Gas Products in the
compensation Saudi Aramco receives
regulatory regime, Saudi Aramco is required Kingdom at Domestic Prices, in the event that
from the Government in respect
to sell crude oil and certain refined products the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of of domestic sales of certain
to third parties in the Kingdom at the Energy do not adjust the Domestic Prices to
hydrocarbons may be changed.
Government’s regulated prices. The regulated meet the pricing of the gas projects in order
prices for these products have historically to ensure Saudi Aramco receives a commercial
generated less revenue for Saudi Aramco rate of return on each project. Under this
than if the same products had been sold mechanism, Saudi Aramco receives
for export. compensation for the difference between
Domestic Prices and Blended Prices in respect
Effective January 1, 2017, the Government of such sales.
implemented an equalization mechanism to
compensate Saudi Aramco for the revenue No assurance can be given that either
it directly forgoes as a result of selling these equalization mechanism will not be revoked
products in the Kingdom at regulated prices. or amended on terms less favorable to Saudi
Under this mechanism, Saudi Aramco receives Aramco than the existing regime. In addition,
compensation for the difference between in the event that the equalization price is less
regulated prices and equalization prices than the regulated price, in the case of liquids,
(which are determined using reported regional or the Blended Price is less than the Domestic
prices) in respect of such sales. Price, in the case of natural gas, the difference
would be due from Saudi Aramco to the
Furthermore, in the Kingdom, natural gas Government. Any such event could have
prices are regulated by the Government and a material adverse effect on Saudi Aramco’s
the price that domestic customers pay is earnings, cash flow, financial position and
traditionally set by the Council of Ministers. results of operations.
2.9. Risks related to the Effective January 1, 2020, the tax rate subsidiaries before December 31, 2024. If the
Company’s failure to applicable to the Company’s downstream Company does not comply in so consolidating
business will be, for a five-year period, the its downstream business within this five-year
consolidate its downstream
general corporate tax rate of 20% that applies period, the Company’s downstream business
business as a condition of
to all similar domestic downstream companies will be taxed retroactively on an annual basis
the Government allowing the under the Income Tax Law, rather than the for such five-year period in accordance with
general corporate tax rate 50% to 85% multi-tiered structure of income the multi-tiered tax rates applicable to
to apply to the Company’s tax rates that applies to domestic oil and domestic oil and hydrocarbon production
hydrocarbon production companies. In order companies. In such case, the Company will be
downstream business
for the general corporate tax rate to apply required to pay the difference in taxes due to
to the Company’s downstream business, the the Government, which could adversely affect
The Company is required to
Company will be required to consolidate its its financial condition. See Section 3: Results
consolidate its downstream business
downstream business under the control and performance.
under the control of one or more
of one or more separate, wholly owned
separate, wholly owned subsidiaries
of Saudi Aramco within a certain
time period as a condition of the
Government allowing the general
corporate tax rate to apply to the
Company’s downstream business.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 104]
102
2.10. Risks related to licenses, The rights granted to Saudi Aramco under the assurance that the relevant authorities will
permits and approvals Concession represent Saudi Aramco’s licenses, issue any such licenses, permits or approvals in
permits, and approvals necessary to conduct the time frame anticipated by Saudi Aramco,
business in the Kingdom with respect to or at all. Any failure to renew, maintain or
Saudi Aramco is required to obtain,
Hydrocarbons operations and related obtain the required permits and approvals,
maintain and renew governmental
activities. However, Saudi Aramco is required or the revocation or termination of existing
licenses, permits and approvals in
to obtain and renew any license, permit, licenses, permits and approvals, may interrupt
order to operate its businesses.
or approval that is required under the Saudi Aramco’s operations and could have
Hydrocarbons Law, GSPR or with respect a material adverse effect on Saudi Aramco’s
to certain other activities unrelated to business, financial position and results
Hydrocarbons operations. There can be no of operations.
2.11. Risks related to Saudi Aramco’s operations are subject to damage to property, and (ii) face claims of
environmental protection, extensive laws and regulations relating to death or injury to persons resulting from
environmental protection, health and safety. exposure to hazardous materials or adverse
health and safety laws and
These laws and regulations govern, among impacts on natural resources and properties
regulations
other things, the generation, storage, of others resulting from its operations
handling, use, disposal and transportation (including potentially from the transportation
Saudi Aramco’s operations are of hazardous materials, the emission of hazardous substances and products,
subject to extensive environmental and discharge of hazardous materials, feedstock or chemical pollution). Any such
protection, health and safety laws groundwater use and contamination and costs or liabilities could have a material
and regulations. the health and safety of Saudi Aramco’s adverse effect on Saudi Aramco’s business,
employees and the communities in which it financial position and results of operations.
operates. Compliance with these obligations In particular, in the United States, Motiva and
can result in significant expenditures. If Saudi other companies in the petroleum refining
Aramco fails to comply with applicable laws and marketing industry historically used
and regulations, it could be subject to fines MTBE as a gasoline additive. Motiva is a party
or the partial or total shut down of related to pending lawsuits concerning alleged
operations. Saudi Aramco has, from time to environmental impacts associated with
time, shut down certain facilities in order to historic releases of MTBE in the United States,
ensure compliance with applicable laws and many of which involve other petroleum
regulations. In addition, a stricter interpretation marketers and refiners. Plaintiffs in these
of existing laws and regulations, any changes MTBE lawsuits generally seek to spread
in these laws and regulations or the liability among large groups of oil companies
enactment of new laws and regulations may and seek substantial damages. Additional
impose new obligations on Saudi Aramco lawsuits and claims related to the use of
or otherwise adversely affect Saudi Aramco’s MTBE, including personal injury claims, may
business, financial position and results be filed in the future. Motiva could be subject
of operations. to material liabilities relating to MTBE claims.
Saudi Aramco may also (i) incur significant
costs associated with the investigation, clean
up and restoration of contaminated land,
water or ecosystems, as well as claims for
ksir
[Page 105]
103
2.12. Risks related to Exports of crude oil, refined products and In addition, the Kingdom is a party to
international trade litigation, petrochemicals by Saudi Aramco or its international trade agreements, such as World
affiliates to foreign countries may be affected Trade Organization agreements that include
disputes or agreements
by litigation, disputes or agreements that lead commitments by the Kingdom with respect to
to the imposition of import trade measures, the composition of its laws, regulations and
Saudi Aramco may be affected
including anti-dumping and countervailing practices that impact international trade. The
by international trade litigation,
duties, safeguard measures, import licensing Kingdom may become a party to other such
disputes or agreements.
and customs requirements. The possibility and agreements in the future. Compliance by the
effect of any such measures will depend on Kingdom with any such commitments may
the laws governing the foreign country to directly or indirectly impact Saudi Aramco
which the applicable products are being and could cause it to alter its operations
exported and applicable international trade in a manner that is costly or otherwise has
agreements. Since the majority of Saudi a material adverse effect on its business,
Aramco’s products are exported, any such financial position or results of operations.
measures may have a material adverse effect If the Kingdom fails to comply with these
on Saudi Aramco’s business, financial position commitments, Saudi Aramco’s business
and results of operations. operations could be exposed to scrutiny and
its exports to potential remedial measures,
such as duties, which could have a material
adverse effect on its business, financial
position and results of operations.
2.13. Risks related to the Saudi Aramco has determined that the In addition, Saudi Aramco pays dividends
SAR to U.S. Dollar peg U.S. Dollar is its functional currency because a to its shareholder, the Government, in U.S.
substantial amount of its products are traded Dollars. If the SAR is no longer pegged to the
in U.S. Dollars in international markets. U.S. Dollar and the value of the SAR were to
Saudi Aramco’s financial position
However, many of its operational and other change, Saudi Aramco may be required to
and results of operations may be
expenses are denominated in SAR, which expend additional cash to fund any dividends.
adversely affected if the Kingdom
have been exchanged at a fixed rate to the Such changes could have a material adverse
stops pegging the SAR to the
U.S. Dollar in the Kingdom since 1986. If the effect on Saudi Aramco’s financial position.
U.S. Dollar.
Kingdom’s policy of pegging the SAR to the
U.S. Dollar were to change in the future and
the SAR were to become stronger relative to
the U.S. Dollar, Saudi Aramco may experience
a significant increase in the SAR denominated
costs of its operations. Such an increase
could have a material adverse effect on
Saudi Aramco’s business, financial position
and results of operations.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 106]
104
3
Risks related to Saudi Aramco’s shares
3.1. Risks related to availability All purchases and sales of shares on the Saudi Aramco will pay dividends on the shares
of SAR Exchange, or interests in the shares through to non-Government shareholders in SAR.
swap arrangements, will be denominated in Any actual or perceived inability for foreign
SAR. There can be no assurance that Foreign investors to exchange SAR for other currencies
The inability of foreign investors to
Investors and Foreign Strategic Investors will could have a material adverse effect on demand
exchange SAR for other currencies
have the ability to obtain SAR in amounts for, and the trading price of, the shares.
could have a material adverse effect
necessary to purchase the desired amount
on demand for, and the trading price
of shares or swap interests. In addition,
of, the shares.
3.2. Risks related to the The trading price of the shares may be volatile • changes in eligibility for the shares to be
volatility of the trading price and could fluctuate significantly in response to included in certain financial indices;
a variety of factors, many of which are beyond
of the shares • press reports, whether or not factual,
Saudi Aramco’s control, including:
about Saudi Aramco or the Kingdom;
The trading price of the shares may • changes affecting market valuations of
• political, economic or other developments
be volatile and fluctuate significantly companies in the oil and gas industry,
in or affecting the Kingdom;
due to a variety of factors, many of including changes in the price of crude oil
which are outside Saudi Aramco’s and natural gas, or the willingness of • changes in the regulatory environment;
control, which could result in investors to invest in oil and gas companies;
• additions to or departures of key personnel;
significant losses to prospective
• variations in Saudi Aramco’s results of
investors. • changes to the policy of pegging the
operations or reserve data;
exchange rate between the SAR and the
• announcements regarding Saudi Aramco’s U.S. Dollar;
earnings that are not consistent with
• release or expiry of lock up or other
market expectations;
transfer restrictions on the shares; and
• political or military developments or
• sales or perceived potential sales of
terrorist attacks in MENA or elsewhere;
additional shares by the Government.
• publication of industry data by third
parties, including government statistical Any of these factors may result in large and
agencies, that differ from expectations sudden changes in the trading volume and
of industry or financial analysts; market price of the shares which in turn could
lead to potential losses for investors.
• downgrades or changes in research
coverage by securities research analysts;
3.3. Risks related to being The Government owns a controlling interest In addition, pursuant to the Bylaws, the State
a minority shareholder in Saudi Aramco. The Government is able may offer to purchase shares from minority
to control matters requiring shareholder shareholders. If 75% of the shares not held
approval. The Government has veto power by the Government (or any shareholder acting
The interests of the Government,
with respect to any shareholder action or in concert with the Government) consent
Saudi Aramco’s controlling
approval requiring a majority vote, except to such sale in a duly held Extraordinary
shareholder, may differ from the
where it is required by relevant rules for General Assembly, minority shareholders
interests of Saudi Aramco or Saudi
the Government, as controlling shareholder, will be obligated to sell their shares to the
Aramco’s minority shareholders.
to abstain from voting. If the interests of Government at the offer price proposed
the Government conflict with those of by the Government. A minority shareholder
Saudi Aramco’s minority shareholders, the who is not present at such Extraordinary
minority shareholders may be disadvantaged. General Assembly, or votes against the
resolution approving the sale of shares to
the Government, will still be bound by the
Extraordinary General Assembly’s resolution
and will be compelled to sell its shares to
the Government.
ksir
[TABLE DATA]
3 | Risks related to Saudi Aramco’s shares
[Page 107]
105
3.4. Risks related to payment Any decision to pay dividends on the shares Saudi Aramco will pay dividends on the shares
of dividends on the shares and the amount of dividends to be paid will or the amount of any such dividends.
be made at the discretion of the Board. The Additionally, Saudi Aramco will continue to
amount and frequency of any dividends will review its dividend policy on an ongoing basis
There can be no assurance that
depend on a number of factors, including and may change its dividend policy at any
Saudi Aramco will pay dividends on
Saudi Aramco’s historic and anticipated time without prior notice to its minority
the shares in the future or as to the
earnings and cash flow, Saudi Aramco’s shareholders. For further details regarding amount of any such dividends and
financial obligations and capital requirements, dividends on the shares, see Section 6:
Saudi Aramco may change its
general economic and market conditions and Corporate Governance.
dividend policy without prior notice
other factors deemed relevant by the Board.
to its minority shareholders.
Accordingly, there can be no assurance that
3.5. Risks related to research The trading price and volume of the shares research about Saudi Aramco’s business,
published about Saudi Aramco will depend in part on the research that the market price for the shares could decline.
securities or industry analysts publish about In addition, if one or more research analysts
Saudi Aramco and its business. If research cease coverage of Saudi Aramco or fail to
If securities or industry analysts
analysts do not establish and maintain publish reports on it regularly, it could lose
do not publish research or publish
adequate research coverage or if one or more visibility in the financial markets, which, in
inaccurate or unfavorable research
of the analysts who cover Saudi Aramco turn, could cause the market price for the
about Saudi Aramco or its business,
downgrades their recommendations on the shares to decline significantly.
the market price for the shares may
shares or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable
decline.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 110]
108
Board of Directors
The Board of Directors (Board) of the
Company assumes responsibility for the
overall management and supervision
of the Company and provides strategic
leadership, guidance to management,
assesses opportunities, risks, and risk
mitigation controls of the Company.
The Board also oversees the establishment H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan H.E. Dr. Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf H.E. Mohammed A. Al-Jadaan
of an effective governance, risk and
compliance regime.
The Chairman of the Board is
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan. The current
members of the Board include high-
ranking Saudi Government officials
and former senior executives from the
international oil and gas, chemical, H.E. Mohammad M. Al-Tuwaijri H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi Sir Mark Moody-Stuart
petroleum refining, petrochemical and
finance industries.
The current Board members and their
respective roles are stated below.
Mr. Andrew N. Liveris Mr. Andrew F. J. Gould Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans
Mr. Peter L. Cella Mr. Amin H. Nasser
Board member Title Role
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan Chairman Non-executive Director
H.E. Dr. Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf Deputy Chairman Non-executive Director
H.E. Mohammed A. Al-Jadaan Director Non-executive Director
H.E. Mohammad M. Al-Tuwaijri Director Non-executive Director
H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi Director Non-executive Director
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart Director Independent non-executive Director
Mr. Andrew N. Liveris Director Independent non-executive Director
Mr. Andrew F. J. Gould Director Independent non-executive Director
Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans Director Independent non-executive Director
Mr. Peter L. Cella Director Independent non-executive Director
Mr. Amin H. Nasser Director, President Executive Director
and Chief Executive Officer
ecnanrevog
etaroproc
[Page 111]
109
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan H.E. Dr. Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf • Member of the Board of Governors of the
Arab Monetary Fund since 2016;
Chairman Deputy Chairman • Member of the Board of Governors of the
Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan, 50, is the Chairman H.E. Dr. Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf, 71, has served
since 2016; of the Board. H.E. Al-Rumayyan has served as a Director of the Company since 1999.
as a Director of the Company since 2016. H.E. Dr. Al-Assaf has served as the Minister of State • Member of the Board of Governors of the
H.E. Al-Rumayyan has served as an Advisor to of the Kingdom since 2019 and a member of the Arab Investment and Export Credit Guarantee
the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers Council of Ministers as well as a Director on the Corporation since 2016;
since 2016 and as Governor and Director of the Board of the PIF since 2016. • Member of the Board of Governors of the
Board of the PIF since 2015. He also serves as Arab Authority for Agricultural Investment and
Chairman of the Board of the Decision Support H.E. Dr. Al-Assaf has also served in the following Development since 2016;
Center under the Royal Court since 2016 as well capacities:
• Member of the Board of Governors of the
as a Director of the Board of the Saudi Industrial • Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom Asia Infrastructure Investment Bank since 2016;
Development Fund since 2016, the Board of Uber from 2018 to 2019;
Technologies, Inc. since 2016 and the Board of • Director of the Saudi Authority for Data and
SoftBank Group Corp. since 2017. • Minister of State of the Kingdom from Artificial Intelligence since 2019;
2016 to 2018;
• Director of King Abdulaziz City for Science
H.E. Al-Rumayyan currently serves in the following • Minister of Finance of the Kingdom from and Technology since 2019;
capacities: 1996 to 2016;
• Director of the Royal Commission for Riyadh
• Director of The Royal Commission for Makkah • Chairman of the Board of the PIF from 1996 City since 2019;
City and Holy Sites since 2018; to 2016;
• Chairman of the Board of the Saudi Customs
• Director of NEOM Company since 2019; • Governor of the International Monetary Fund since 2018;
• Director of The Red Sea Development Company from 1996 to 2016; • Chairman of the Board of the General Authority
since 2018; • Governor of the Arab Monetary Fund from of Zakat and Tax since 2017;
• Vice Chairman of Central Arriyadh Development 1996 to 2016; • Chairman of the Board of the Spending
Company since 2018; • Governor of the Islamic Development Bank Efficiency Center since 2018;
• Director of AMAALA Company since 2019; from 1996 to 2016; and • Chairman of the Board of the Non-Oil Revenue
• Chairman of King Abdullah Financial District • Chairman of Sanabil Investments from Center since 2018;
Development & Management Company 2009 to 2017. • Committee Chairman of the Financial Sector
since 2018; Development Program Committee since 2017;
H.E. Dr. Al-Assaf earned a Ph.D. in Economics
• Director of Community Development Company from Colorado State University in 1982, a M.S. in • Committee Chairman of the Fiscal Balance
since 2018; Economics from the University of Denver in 1976 Program Committee since 2017;
• Chairman of Noon Investments Company and a B.S. in Economics and Political Science from • Chairman of the General Authority of
since 2017; King Saud University in 1971. Government Real Estate since 2018;
• Director of Qiddiya Investment Company • Director of the National Center for Performance
since 2018; Measurement (Adaa) since 2016;
• Chairman of Sanabil Investments Company H.E. Mohammed A. Al-Jadaan • Director of the National Information Center
since 2017; since 2018;
Director
• Chairman of Saudi Arabian Mining Company • Director of the National Program to Support
(Ma’aden) since 2019; H.E. Mohammed A. Al-Jadaan, 56, has served as a the Management of Projects in Public Entities
• Director of ARM Company since 2018; and Director of the Company since 2018. H.E. Al-Jadaan since 2018;
• Member of the Board of Governors of the has served as the Minister of Finance of the Kingdom • Director of the Madinah Development
Islamic Development Bank since 2016. since 2016, Minister of Economy and Planning Commission since 2016;
since March 2020 and is a member of the Council • Director of the Premium Residency Center
H.E. Al-Rumayyan has also held the following of Ministers. He also has served as Governor of the since 2019;
Islamic Development Bank since 2016.
positions: • Chairman of the Privatisation Program
• Chief Executive Officer of Saudi Fransi Capital H.E. Al-Jadaan currently serves in the following Committee since 2019; and
from 2011 to 2015; capacities: • Chairman of the National Center for
• Director of the Saudi Stock Exchange (Tadawul) • Director of the PIF since 2016; Privatization & PPP (NCP) since 2019.
in 2014;
• Director of Military Industries Corporation H.E. Al-Jadaan has also served in the following
• Director of Corporate Finance and Issuance, since 2016; capacities:
CMA from 2008 to 2010; and
• Director of National Development Fund • Chairman of the CMA from 2015 to 2016; and
• Head of International Brokerage for Saudi since 2017;
Hollandi Bank from 1994 to 2004. • Co-founder and Managing Partner of Al-Jadaan
• Director of General Authority for Military & Partners Law Firm from 1996 to 2015.
Industries since 2017;
H.E. Al-Rumayyan earned a B.S. in Accounting
from King Faisal University in 1993 and completed • Member of the Board of Governors of the H.E. Al-Jadaan earned a B.A. in Islamic Shari’a,
a General Management Program at Harvard International Monetary Fund since 2016; with a specialty in Islamic Economics from Imam
Business School in 2007. • Member of the Board of Governors of the Muhammad bin Saud Islamic University in 1986
World Bank since 2016; and a Diploma in Legal Studies from the Institute
of Public Administration, Riyadh in 1998.
• Member of the Board of Governors of the
Arab Fund for Economic and Social
Development since 2016;
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 112]
110
H.E. Mohammad M. Al-Tuwaijri • Member of the Supervisory Committee of the Sir Mark Moody-Stuart
Kingdom’s participation in the World Economic
Director Forum (Davos) 2020 since 2019. Director
H.E. Mohammad M. Al-Tuwaijri, 53, has served H.E. Al-Tuwaijri has also served in the following Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, 79, has served as an
as a Director of the Company since 2018. capacities: independent Director of the Company since 2007.
H.E. Al-Tuwaijri has served as a member of the Sir Mark has served as Chairman of the Global
• Minister of Economy and Planning of the
Council of Ministers since 2017, as a member of Compact Foundation since 2006, and of Zamyn
Kingdom from 2017 to 2020;
the Council for Economic and Development Affairs since 2016. He also has served as an Advisory
since 2017 and serves as a member of the Finance • Deputy Chairman Chief Executive Officer of Board Member of Envision Energy Ltd. since 2012.
Committee in the Royal Court. Since March 2020, HSBC Middle East, North Africa and Turkey
H.E. Al-Tuwaijri also serves as an advisor at the Regional Head of Global Banking & Markets, Sir Mark currently serves in the following
Royal Court. He has also served as Chairman of the MENA from 2010 to 2016; and capacities:
Centre for the National Transformation Program • Chief Executive Officer of J.P. Morgan Saudi • Member of the Board of St. George’s House
since 2019, National Project Management, Arabia from 2007 to 2010. Windsor from 2011; and
Operation and Maintenance Organisation
(Mashroat) since 2017 and the General Authority H.E. Al-Tuwaijri earned a B.A. from the King Faisal • Council Member of the Integrated Reporting
for Statistics since 2017; as the Vice Chairman of Air Academy in 1986 and an MBA from King Saud Council since 2010.
the National Development Fund since 2017; University in 1998.
as a Director on the Board of the PIF since 2017, Sir Mark has also served in the following capacities:
and as the Secretary General of the National • Chairman of the Innovative Vector Control
Center for Performance Measurement (Adaa). Consortium from 2008 to 2018;
H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi
• Vice Chairman of the UN Global Compact
H.E. Al-Tuwaijri currently serves in the following Director from 2006 to 2018;
capacities:
• Director of Accenture plc from 2001 to 2015;
• Member of the Board of Directors of the H.E. Nabeel Mohamed Al-Amudi, 46, has served
Saudi Authority for Data and Artificial as a Director of the Company since 2019. • Chairman of Hermes Equity Ownership Services
Intelligence since 2019; H.E. Al-Amudi has also served as a member of from 2007 to 2016;
• Member of the Board of Directors of the Royal the Board of the Red Sea Company since 2017 • Chairman of Anglo American from 2002
Authority for the City of Riyadh since 2019; and NEOM since 2018. to 2009; and
• Member of the Board of Directors of the Royal • Chairman of Royal Dutch Shell from 1998
Commission for Makkah City and Holy Sites H.E. Al-Amudi has also served in the following to 2001.
capacities:
since 2018;
• Minister of Transport of the Kingdom and Sir Mark earned a B.A. in Natural Sciences from
• Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Cambridge University in 1963 and a Ph.D. in
National Center for Strategic Development General Authority of Civil Aviation, Public Geology from Cambridge University in 1966. He
Studies since 2016; Transport Authority, Saudi Ports Authority, also received an Honorary Doctorate in Business
• Member of the Board of Directors of the Saudi Saudi Railways Organization and Saudi Railways Administration from Robert Gordon University,
Center for International Strategic Partnerships Company from 2017 to 2019; Aberdeen in 2000, an Honorary Doctorate of Law
since 2018; from the University of Aberdeen in 2004, and
• Member of the Council of Economic and
• Member of the Board of Directors of the Development Affairs from 2017 to 2019; an Honorary Doctorate of Science from Royal
National Center for Privatization & PPP (NCP) Holloway University of London in 2007.
• Member of the Board of Directors of the
since 2019;
Saudi Center for the Strategic International
• Member of the Board of Directors of the Partnerships during 2019;
National Information Center since 2018; Mr. Andrew N. Liveris
• President of Saudi Ports Authority from
• Supervisor of the National Risk Unit at the Royal 2015 to 2017; Director
Court since 2017;
• Member of the Board of Directors for
• Council Member of the National Risk Council Hapag-Lloyd AG in 2017; Mr. Andrew N. Liveris, 65, has served as an
at the Royal Court and the Executive Committee independent Director of the Company since 2018.
• Chairman of the Board of Directors of the
of such council since 2018;
United Arab Shipping Company until its merger
• Member of the Board of Directors of Saudi with Hapag-Lloyd AG, from 2015 to 2017; Mr. Liveris currently serves in the following
Arabian Airlines since 2017; capacities:
• Chairman of the Board of Directors of the
• Chairman of the Standing Committee of the Saudi Electronic Info Exchange Company, • Director on the Board of International Business
Council for Economic Affairs and Development; Tabadul from 2016 to 2017; Machines Corporation (IBM) since 2010;
• Chairman of the Investment Committee of the • President of Aramco Services Company from • Director on the Board of Worley Parsons
PIF Board since 2019; 2013 to 2015; and since 2018;
• Head of the Saudi side of Saudi Committees • President of Saudi Refining Inc. from • Director on the Board of Novonix since 2018,
(Spanish, Portuguese, Brunei, Japanese, Korean, 2012 to 2013. • Director on the Board of Trustees of KAUST
Malaysian, Austrian); since 2017;
• Chairman of the Supervisory Committee for Previously, H.E. Al-Amudi was an employee of • Senior Advisor to Teneo since 2018;
the Kingdom’s participation in Expo 2020 Dubai Saudi Aramco, joining in 1995, during which
• Senior Advisor to PIF, a sovereign wealth fund
since 2018; he held a series of positions progressing through
since 2018;
various areas of the Company.
• Member of the Strategic Committee of the
• Member of the Advisory Board of Sumitomo
Council for Economic and Development Affairs
H.E. Al-Amudi earned a J.D. from Harvard Law Mitsui Banking Corporation (SMBC) since 2018;
since 2018;
School in 2001 and a B.S. in Chemical Engineering • Member of the Advisory Board of NEOM
• Member of the Supreme Committee for from Stanford University in 1995. H.E. Al-Amudi since 2018;
Hydrocarbons Affairs since 2018; is a 2009 graduate of Stanford’s Graduate School
• Member of the Board of Trustees of Saudi
• Member of the National Committee for Digital of Business Executive Program and is a member
Foundation Hevolution since 2019; and
Transformation since 2018; of the New York State Bar Association. He was
elected as a Young Global Leader by the World • Member of the Board of Trustees of Australian
• Member of the High Committee for Atomic
Economic Forum in 2014. Foundation Minderoo since 2019.
Energy since 2018; and
ecnanrevog
etaroproc
[Page 113]
111
Mr. Liveris has also served in the following Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans Mr. Amin H. Nasser
capacities:
Director Director, President and Chief Executive Officer • Executive Chairman on the Board of
DowDuPont Inc. from 2017 to 2018;
Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans, 63, has served as an Mr. Amin H. Nasser, 61, has served as the
• Chairman, President and CEO of The Dow independent Director of the Company since 2018. President and CEO of the Company since 2015.
Chemical Company from 2006 to 2018; Mr. Nasser has been a Director since 2010.
• Chair of the American Manufacturing Council Ms. Elsenhans currently serves in the following
under U.S. President Donald J. Trump in 2017; capacities: Currently Mr. Nasser is a member of:
• Co-Chair of the Advanced Manufacturing • Director on the Board of Baker Hughes • the International Advisory Board of KFUPM
Partnership Steering Committee; Company since 2019; and since 2016;
• Member of the President’s Export Council • Director on the Board of GlaxoSmithKline plc • the Board of Trustees of KAUST since 2016;
under U.S. President Barack H. Obama from since 2012. • the World Economic Forum’s International
2011 to 2016; Business Council since 2016;
Ms. Elsenhans has also served in the following
• Member of the Australian government’s capacities: • the Presidential CEO Advisory Board at
Industry Growth Centres Advisory Committee; Massachusetts Institute of Technology since
and • Director of Baker Hughes a GE company 2016;
from 2017 to 2019;
• Director on the Board of The Nature • the JP Morgan International Council since
Conservancy. • Director of Baker Hughes, Inc. from 2012 2016; and
to 2017;
• the Board of Dhahran Techno Valley Company
Mr. Liveris obtained a B.S. in Chemical Engineering • Director of Flowserve Corporation from 2014 since 2010.
from the University of Queensland in 1976, to 2017;
graduating with First Class Honors and awarded
• Director of International Paper Company Prior to serving as President and CEO, Mr. Nasser
the University Medal. He was awarded an honorary
from 2007 to 2012; served in a number of leadership positions at the
doctorate in Engineering from Michigan State
University in 2015 and an honorary doctorate in • President and CEO of Sunoco, Inc. from 2008 Company, including as Senior Vice President for
Science from the University of Queensland in 2005. to 2012, becoming Chairwoman in 2009; and Upstream from 2007 to 2015 and VP of Petroleum
Engineering and Development from 2006 to 2007.
• Chairwoman of Sunoco Logistics Partners
from 2008 to 2012, becoming CEO in 2010. Mr. Nasser earned a B.S. in Petroleum Engineering
Mr. Andrew F. J. Gould from KFUPM in 1982. He also completed the
Ms. Elsenhans earned a B.A. in Applied Senior Executive Program at Columbia University in
Director Mathematics from Rice University in 1978 and 2002, the Saudi Aramco Global Business Program
an MBA from Harvard University in 1980. in 2000 and the Saudi Aramco Management
Mr. Andrew F. J. Gould, 73, has served as an Development Seminar in Washington, D.C. in 1999.
independent Director of the Company since 2013.
Mr. Peter L. Cella
Mr. Gould currently serves in the following
capacities: Director
• Chairman of the Board of the International
Advisory Board of Boston Consulting Group Mr. Peter L. Cella, 62, has served as an
Centre for Energy Impact since 2016; independent Director of the Company since 2018.
• General Partner of CSL Capital Management LP
Mr. Cella currently serves in the following capacities:
since 2018;
• Director on the Board of Frontdoor since 2018;
• Director on the Board of BJ Services, Inc.,
since 2017; • Director on the Board of Inter Pipeline
since 2018;
• Director on the Board of Lambert Energy
since 2018; • Director on the Board of ClockSpring|NRI,
since 2019; and
• Member of the Advisory Board at L1 Energy
Fund since 2013; and • Member of the Strategic Advisory Committee
for Arcadis NV since 2018.
• Member of the Board of Trustees at KAUST
since 2007.
Mr. Cella has also served in the following capacities:
Mr. Gould has also served in the following • Director on the Board of ServiceMaster Global
capacities: Holdings from 2017 to 2018;
• Chairman and CEO of Schlumberger Limited • President and CEO and as a Director on the
from 2003 to 2011 and from 2012 to 2016; and Board of Chevron Phillips Chemical Company
from 2011 to 2017;
• Non-executive Chairman and non-executive
Director of BG Group plc from 2011 to 2016. • Director on the Board of the American
Chemistry Council from 2011 to 2017;
Mr. Gould obtained a B.A. in Economic History • Director on the Board of the Junior
from Cardiff University in 1969 and an Honorary Achievement of Southeast Texas from 2011
Doctorate in Engineering from Colorado School to 2017; and
of Mines in 2004. Mr. Gould has also been an
• Senior Vice President for North America
Honorary Fellow of Cardiff University since 2005.
Petrochemicals for BASF Corporation from
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant with
2006 to 2011.
Ernst & Young and The Institute of Chartered
Accountants in England and Wales in 1972.
Mr. Cella earned a B.S. degree in Finance from
the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
in 1979 and an MBA from Northwestern University
in 1981.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 114]
112
Senior Executives
Mr. Amin Mr. Mohammed Mr. Abdulaziz Mr. Khalid
H. Nasser Y. Al-Qahtani M. Al-Gudaimi H. Al-Dabbagh
President and CEO Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President of Finance,
Upstream Downstream Strategy and Development
Please see the Board of Directors’
biographies subsection earlier. Mr. Mohammed Y. Al-Qahtani, 54, Mr. Abdulaziz M. Al-Gudaimi, 57, Mr. Khalid Al-Dabbagh, 58, has
has served as Senior Vice President has served as Senior Vice President served as Senior Vice President,
of Upstream since 2016. Currently, of Downstream since 2017. Finance, Strategy and Development
Mr. Al-Qahtani serves as Chairman of since 2018. Mr. Al-Dabbagh chairs
and serves as a Board Director
the Dhahran Techno Valley Advisory Mr. Al-Gudaimi also has served in
in various companies.
Board and University of Hafr Al-Batin the following capacities:
Advisory Board. In addition, he • Acting Senior Vice President of Mr. Al-Dabbagh also has served in
serves as a member of the Board Downstream from 2016 to 2017; the following capacities:
of the Bilateral U.S.-Arab Chamber of
Commerce. Mr. Al-Qahtani is also a • Vice President of Power Systems • Financial Controller from 2012 to
member of the College of Petroleum from 2014 to 2017; 2018;
Engineering and Geosciences • Vice President of Corporate • Treasurer from 2010 to 2012;
oversight committee at KFUPM. Planning in 2014; • Corporate Planning Manager
• Vice President of Power Systems from 2008 to 2010;
Mr. Al-Qahtani also has served in from 2013 to 2014; • Director of Joint Venture
the following capacities: • Vice President of Chemicals from Development from 2006 to 2008;
• Vice President of Corporate 2010 to 2013; • President & CEO of Saudi
Planning from 2014 to 2015; Petroleum Inc. in New York from
• Director of SADARA from 2014 to
• Acting Senior Vice President of 2016; and 2003 to 2006; and
Operations and Business Services • Managing Director of Saudi
in 2014; • Shareholder Representative of Petroleum in Tokyo from 2001
Saudi Electricity Company from
• Vice President of Saudi Aramco 2014 to 2015. to 2003.
Affairs from 2013 to 2014; and
Mr. Al-Dabbagh earned a bachelor’s
• Vice President of Petroleum Mr. Al-Gudaimi earned an MBA
degree in industrial engineering
Engineering and Development from Massachusetts Institute of
from the University of Toledo in
from 2011 to 2012. Technology’s Sloan School of
1985. In addition, he has completed
Management in 2001 and a B.S. in
a number of executive leadership
Mr. Al-Qahtani earned both a Ph.D. Petroleum Engineering from KFUPM
programs, including the Senior
and M.S. in Petroleum Engineering in 1983.
Executive Programme at London
from the University of Southern
Business School.
California in 1996 and 1992
respectively, and a B.S. in Petroleum
Engineering from KFUPM in 1988.
In addition, he completed the IMD
Programme for Executive Development
in Lausanne, Switzerland.
ecnanrevog
etaroproc
[Page 115]
113
Mr. Ahmad Mr. Muhammad Mr. Nabeel
A. Al-Sa’adi M. Al-Saggaf1,2 A. Al-Mansour
Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President, General
Technical Services Operations and Business Services Counsel and Corporate Secretary
Mr. Ahmad A. Al-Sa’adi, 61, has Mr. Muhammad M. Al-Saggaf, 53, Mr. Nabeel A. Al-Mansour, 52, has
served as Senior Vice President of has served as Senior Vice President served as Senior Vice President,
Technical Services since 2016. In this of Operations and Business Services General Counsel and Secretary
role, Mr. Al-Sa’adi leads the Company’s since 2016. Mr. Al-Saggaf also has since 2016. Currently, he serves as
technical services with respect to served in the following capacities: a member of the Board of the Saudi
engineering, IT, materials supply • Acting Senior Vice President of Centre for Commercial Arbitration.
and community, infrastructure and
Operations and Business Services
public projects. from 2014 to 2016; Mr. Al-Mansour also has served in
the following capacities:
Mr. Al-Sa’adi also has served in • President of King Abdullah
the following capacities: Petroleum Studies and Research • Deputy General Counsel from
• Vice President of Technical Center from 2012 to 2014; and 2015 to 2016;
Services from 2015 to 2016; • General Manager of Strategic • Executive Director and Vice
• Vice President of Gas Operations Transformation Office from 2011 President of Procurement and
from 2010 to 2015; to 2012. Supply Chain Management from
2014 to 2015; and
• Vice President of Pipelines,
Mr. Al-Saggaf earned an MBA from • Associate General Counsel from
Distribution & Terminals from
KFUPM in 2005, an M.S. and Ph.D. in 2011 to 2014.
2007 to 2010;
Geophysics from the Massachusetts
• Chief Engineer of Saudi Aramco Institute of Technology in 1996 and Mr. Al-Mansour earned a J.D. from
from 2004 to 2007; and 2000, respectively, and a B.S. in Oklahoma City University in 1999
• President and Chief Executive Mathematics from KFUPM in 1989. and a B.S. in Systems Engineering
Officer of Saudi Aramco Gulf In addition, he completed the from KFUPM in 1990. In addition, he
Operations Company (AGOC) Management Development Program has completed a number of executive
from 2001 to 2004. at Harvard Business School in 2005. leadership program, including the
General Management Program at
Mr. Al-Sa’adi earned a B.S. in Harvard Business School in 2008.
Chemical Engineering (Applied) from
KFUPM in 1981 and completed the
Management Development Program
at Harvard Business School in 2000.
1. A s of January 2020, Mr. Al-Saggaf accepted a new position as the acting President of KFUPM.
2. A s of January 12, 2020 Mr. Nabeel A. Al-Jama’ is the acting Head of Operations and Business Services.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 116]
114
Board structure and composition
The Board comprises 11 Directors convened The Company’s Bylaws, which set forth Board responsibilities
in accordance with the Company’s Bylaws. requirements concerning the composition
The Company is supervised by a Board
Pursuant to the Bylaws, the President and of its Board, including that the number
consisting of professional and highly
Chief Executive Officer has a permanent of independent directors must satisfy the
experienced persons. The Board is vested
membership on the Board without being minimum requirements of applicable laws
with full powers to manage the business of
subject to election or any further action by and regulations in the Kingdom, were
the Company and supervise its affairs. The
General Assemblies. The Capital Markets approved by virtue of Council of Ministers
Board delegates power to four committees
Law, Companies Law, including any Resolution No. 180, dated 1/4/1439H
which report to the Board, consisting of
applicable regulations, the Bylaws and the (corresponding to December 19, 2017).
the Audit Committee, the Nomination
internal governance regulations of the In 2019, the Council of Ministers issued
Committee, the Compensation Committee
Company determine the duties and Resolution No. 8, dated 4/1/1441H
and the Risk and HSE Committee. In addition,
responsibilities of the Board. The term of (corresponding to September 3, 2019)
the Board has the power to form any number
a Director is for a period not to exceed three appointing H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan as
of committees it deems necessary for
years in the Hijri calendar, subject to renewal Chairman of the Board and H.E. Nabeel M.
effective governance, oversight and
or extension. Al-Amudi as a Director of the Company.
operations of the Company or to delegate
all or some of its authorities to any person
The business address of each Director is the
or Board committee. KPIs help the Board
registered address of the Company. There are
and executive management measure
no existing or potential conflicts of interest
performance against the Company’s strategic
between any duties of any Director towards
priorities and business plans across a wide
the Company and the Director’s private
range of measures and indicators. The Board
interests or other duties.
periodically reviews such metrics and tests
their relevance to the Company’s strategy.
Board meeting attendance
In 2019, there were seven Board meetings. There were no meeting attendances by proxy during 2019. Below is a record of attendance at these
meetings for each Board member.
2019 Board meeting attendance
Members Mar 14 May 4 Aug 8 Sep 19 Oct 19 Dec 3 Dec 11-12
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan, Chairman1 • • • • • • •
H.E. Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf, Deputy Chairman • • • – • • •
H.E. Mohammed A. Al-Jadaan • • • • – • •
H.E. Mohammad M. Al-Tuwaijri • • • • • • •
H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi2 n/a n/a n/a • • • •
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart • • • • • • •
Mr. Andrew N. Liveris • • • • • • •
Mr. Andrew F. J. Gould • • • • • • •
Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans • • • • • • •
Mr. Peter L. Cella • • • • • • •
Mr. Amin H. Nasser • • • • • • •
H.E. Khalid A. Al-Falih3 • • • n/a n/a n/a n/a
1. H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan was appointed as Chairman of the Board on September 3, 2019.
2. H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi was appointed as a member of the Board on September 3, 2019.
3. H.E. Khalid A. Al-Falih departed from the Board and its Committees on September 3, 2019.
ecnanrevog
etaroproc
[Page 117]
115
Board committees Management of the Company
To optimize the management of the
Company, the following committees of
the Board were established by the Board:
(i) the Audit Committee; (ii) the Risk and HSE Board
Committee; (iii) the Nomination Committee;
and (iv) the Compensation Committee.
All Board Committees have their respective Audit Risk and HSE Nomination Compensation
charters that identify the Board Committee’s Committee Committee Committee Committee
roles, its powers, and responsibilities.
Separate minutes are prepared for each
Committee meeting.
Board evaluations
With respect to the means used by the
Senior Executives
Board to assess its performance and the
performance of its Committees and
members, the Board’s Nomination
Committee in 2019 began to implement a
process for such an assessment. This process
is expected to be implemented in 2020, with
results to be provided to the Board prior to
year end 2020. The Company has engaged
Egon Zehnder, a third-party consultant,
to conduct this assessment.
Shareholder engagement
The Company had a sole shareholder until
December 11, 2019. Prior to the Company’s
IPO, the shareholder could approve items via
written resolution without a General
Assembly. The Company sought written
resolutions from the shareholder to approve
the following in 2019:
• appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers
(PwC) as the external auditor for 2019;
and
• the Compensation, Nomination, Dividend
Distribution, and Citizenship policies.
The Company held its General Assembly
meeting on November 20, 2019. The
Chairman of the Board attended the General
Assembly meeting as the representative
of the Board and chaired the meeting. The
Board received an update on the November
20, 2019 General Assembly meeting at
the December 11-12, 2019 Board meeting.
The Company’s shareholders play an integral
role in the Company’s overall governance
framework. Pursuant to the CMA’s Corporate
Governance Regulations, members of the
Board are now required to attend the
Company’s General Assembly meetings.
At such meetings, shareholders will be able
to provide their suggestions and remarks
directly to the members of the Board.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 118]
116
Audit Committee report
2019 Audit Committee meeting attendance
Members March 13 May 2 August 7 November 1
Mr. Andrew F. J. Gould, Chairman • • • •
H.E. Mohammed A. Al-Jadaan • • • –
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan1 • • • n/a
Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans • • • •
Mr. Peter L. Cella • • • •
1. H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan was appointed as Chairman of the Board on September 3, 2019. The Chairman of the Board may not serve as a member of the Audit Committee. H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi
was appointed as a member of the Board on September 3, 2019. The membership of the Audit Committee was reconstituted on December 11, 2019 to include H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi as a member.
The primary role of the Audit Committee is The Audit Committee met four times in 2019. The Audit Committee continues to
to monitor the Company’s affairs and assist To enable the Audit Committee to fulfill its engage with:
the Board and its Directors with oversight of role, duties and objectives, the relevant key
• management for the preparation and
the financial reporting and disclosure process, Company stakeholders and members of
accuracy of the Company’s consolidated
including oversight of: management participated in each of the
financial statements;
Audit Committee meetings held in 2019,
• the integrity, effectiveness and accuracy
including the Company’s external auditor, • management for the establishment of
of the Company’s consolidated financial
General Auditor (internal auditor), Controller, effective internal controls and procedures
statements and reports, and the
and Senior Vice President of Finance, Strategy to ensure the Company’s compliance with
performance, soundness and effectiveness
and Development. accounting standards, financial reporting
of the Company’s internal controls, audit,
procedures and applicable laws and
financial reporting and financial risk
Key stakeholders and various members of regulations;
management systems;
Management presented and provided input
• the General Auditor for support in
• the qualifications and performance of to the Committee on certain matters
discharging the Committee’s responsibilities
the Company’s internal auditor; including the integrity, effectiveness and
with respect to risk management, financial
accuracy of the Company’s consolidated
• the qualifications, independence and reporting processes, systems of internal
financial statements and reports, and the
performance of the Company’s control, and compliance with legal and
performance, soundness and effectiveness of
independent external auditor; and regulatory requirements; and
the Company’s internal controls, audit, financial
• the Company’s compliance with legal reporting and financial risk management. • the external auditor in connection with
and regulatory requirements. the external auditor’s annual audit and
quarterly reviews, as applicable, of the
consolidated financial statements.
ecnanrevog
etaroproc
[Page 119]
117
Based on input and presentations from Financial reporting and external audit Internal controls
relevant key stakeholders and members Two of the Audit Committee’s key The Audit Committee is responsible for
of management, the Audit Committee responsibilities are to monitor the integrity reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of
endorsed several items in 2019 for Board of the financial statements and to assess the Company’s internal control and financial
approval, including: the effectiveness of the external auditor. risk management systems. During the
course of the year, the Audit Committee has
• the 2018 Annual Report;
The Audit Committee has assessed that considered various material controls, including
• the 2018 consolidated financial statements; appropriate accounting policies have been financial, operational and compliance
adopted throughout the accounting period controls, and the Audit Committee is of the
• the 2019 condensed consolidated interim and that management has made appropriate opinion that the Company’s internal and
financial reports;
estimates and judgments over the recognition, financial control systems and risk management
• a Tax Risk Management Policy to align measurement and presentation of the systems are effective and adequate.
the Company and all of its subsidiaries financial results.
under one focused tax planning arm; and
At each of the Audit Committee’s meetings
• the engagement of the Company’s external
in 2019 there were extensive reports and
auditor for 2020, subject to shareholder
discussions with the external auditor and
approval for such engagement.
members of management regarding the
financial statements and the process to
Further, the Audit Committee evaluated and
prepare the financial statements for each
received reports on various key issues including:
quarter. At the final meeting of the fiscal
• a review of the Company’s financial risk year, the external auditor presented to the
management activities; Committee members the 2019 External Audit
Plan reviewing the process they would
• the Company’s internal auditing activities
undertake to complete the audit of the
in 2018, covering areas such as assurance
2019 annual financial statements. Also at
activities, advisory engagements, fraud
this meeting, the Audit Committee reviewed
risk management and certain key
the external auditor’s performance and
initiatives taken during the year;
independence for 2019 and did not identify
• the activities of the Company’s Conflict of any deficiencies.
Interest and Business Ethics Committee
In 2018, the Audit Committee authorized
• the financial performance of the
management to engage PwC in 2019 to
Company’s benefit plans in 2018;
perform certain limited other services,
• a report on the Company’s corporate to ensure the external auditor remains
borrowing and financial gearing metrics; independent under the Saudi Organization
and for Certified Public Accountants (SOCPA)
standards and under guidance issued by
• the Company’s 2020 internal audit plan,
the International Federation of Accountants.
including the related plan development
The principal other services provided by the
approach and process.
external auditor in 2019 related to tax
compliance.
The Company’s General Auditor was present
at each of the Audit Committee meetings
The Audit Committee recommended the
held in 2019. As part of his presentations to
Board appoint, subject to shareholder
the Audit Committee, the General Auditor
approval, PwC as the Company’s external
reported on the Company’s internal auditing
auditor for fiscal year 2020 and until the
activities undertaken during the year. As part
2021 Annual General Meeting. The Audit
of the Audit Committee’s review of the 2020
Committee approved the engagement
internal audit plan, the Audit Committee
letter with PwC, setting out the terms
ensured that the plan is aligned with the key
and conditions for their service in 2020.
risks of the business.
Mr. Darrell McGraw will continue to act
as lead audit partner for PwC until the
conclusion of the 2023 audit, subject
to satisfactory performance and continued
engagement of PwC as external auditor.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 120]
118
Risk and HSE Committee report
2019 Risk and HSE Committee meeting attendance
Members March 13 May 2 August 7 December 11
Mr. Peter L. Cella, Chairman • • • •
H.E. Mohammad M. Al-Tuwaijri • • • •
H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi1 n/a n/a n/a •
Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans • • • •
Mr. Amin H. Nasser • • • •
H.E. Khalid A. Al-Falih2 • • • n/a
1. H .E. Nabeel. M. Al-Amudi was appointed as a member of the Board on September 3, 2019. The membership of the Risk and HSE Committee was reconstituted on December 11, 2019 to include
H.E. Nabeel. M. Al-Amudi as a member of the Risk and HSE Committee.
2. H.E. Khalid. A. Al-Falih departed from the Board and its Committees on September 3, 2019.
The primary role of the Risk and HSE Further, in 2019, the Risk and HSE Committee The Risk and HSE Committee continues
Committee is to monitor the Company’s reviewed an update to the Company’s to support the Board and the Company by
overall management of risk and its Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework carrying out its duties and responsibilities
activities relating to health, safety and the that involved reviewing the Company’s that include the following:
environment and to assist the Board: existing corporate risks and identifying any
• reviewing implementation of strategies
additional top corporate risk(s) that would
• with leadership, direction, and oversight and policies for operational and strategic
need to be reviewed by the Risk and HSE
with respect to the Company’s risk risk management and the adequacy and
Committee. In addition, the Risk and HSE
appetite, risk tolerance, risk framework effectiveness of the Company's enterprise
Committee reviewed the Company’s
and risk strategy; risk management framework;
performance for the previous fiscal year in
• with governance and management 2018 with respect to safety incidents and • reviewing the Company’s risk appetite;
of strategic and operational risks and with respect to certain health, safety, and
• reviewing the Company’s operational
sustainability; and environmental (HSE) metrics and targets.
and strategic risks;
The Risk and HSE Committee also reviewed
• along with the Audit Committee, to
the Company’s quarterly performance for • reporting on major strategic risk exposures
foster a culture within the Company that
the first three (3) quarters in 2019 with and recommending steps to manage these
emphasizes and demonstrates the benefits
respect to HSE metrics and targets, along risks to the Board; and
of risk management.
with reviewing proposed HSE corporate key
• reviewing the effectiveness of the
performance indicator targets for 2020.
The Risk and HSE Committee held four Company’s policies, programs and
meetings in 2019. During the year, the Risk practices with respect to safety, health,
and HSE Committee reviewed and assessed environment, social, and community
several top corporate risks that the Company relations issues, and making such
is actively managing, along with certain key recommendations to the Board with
health, safety, and environmental matters respect thereto as may be advisable.
that impact or that could potentially impact
the Company. Specifically, in 2019 the Risk The Risk and HSE Committee also carries
and HSE Committee discussed and evaluated out the functions and the duties and
several corporate risks including those responsibilities of the Risk Management
relating to market disruption, cyberattacks, Committee described in the CMA’s Corporate
land encroachment, compliance and conduct, Governance Regulations.
environment compliance, major non-industrial
incidents, and mergers and acquisitions
integration.
ecnanrevog
etaroproc
[Page 121]
119
Nomination Committee statement
2019 Nomination Committee meeting attendance
Members May 2 Dec 11
Mr. Andrew N. Liveris, Chairman • •
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan1 n/a •
H.E. Dr. Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf • •
H.E. Mohammad M. Al-Tuwaijri • •
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart • •
H.E. Khalid A. Al-Falih2 – n/a
1. The membership of the Nomination Committee was reconstituted on December 11, 2019 to include H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan as a member.
2. H.E. Khalid A. Al-Falih departed from the Board and its Committees on September 3, 2019.
The primary role of the Nomination In May 2019, the Nomination Committee With respect to the means used by the
Committee is to lead the process of verified (i) the independence of the Board’s Board to assess its performance and the
nominating, appointing and evaluating five (5) independent Directors, and (ii) the performance of its Committees and
members of the Board of the Company absence of any conflicts of interest with members, the Nomination Committee began
and to ensure the effectiveness of the Board respect to any of the Directors that were in 2019 to implement a process for such an
and the individual Directors. The Nomination members of the Board at that time. In assessment. This process is expected to be
Committee also evaluates and makes December 2019, the Nomination Committee implemented in 2020, with results to be
recommendations with respect to the reviewed the Company’s establishment provided to the Board prior to year end 2020.
structure of the Board and composition of of the Digital Transformation Organization. The Company has engaged Egon Zehnder,
the committees of the Board. Further, the Further, the Nomination Committee reviewed a third-party consultant, to conduct this initial
Nomination Committee evaluates and and endorsed the procedures for nominating assessment. Egon Zehnder also provide
recommends to the Board the appointments Directors for the Company. In addition, executive search services to the Company.
of individuals (other than Directors) as officers the Nomination Committee reviewed the
of the Company, including those proposed workshops that were conducted for the
to hold the title of vice president or higher Directors in 2019, including site visits to
or that are otherwise authorized by virtue of Saudi Aramco’s facilities, panel discussions
such appointment to bind or act on behalf on subjects relevant to the Company and its
of the Company. The Nomination Committee operations and workshops in preparation
also proposes and makes recommendations for the Company’s December 2019 Tadawul
to the Board with respect to the Company’s listing. The Nomination Committee then
relevant corporate governance practices and reviewed and endorsed proposed workshops
procedures. for the Directors in 2020.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 122]
120
Compensation Committee statement
2019 Compensation Committee meeting attendance
Members Mar 13 May 2 Aug 7 Sep 19 Oct 19 Dec 11
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, Chairman • • • • • •
H.E. Mohammed A. Al-Jadaan • • • – – •
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan • – – • • •
Mr. Andrew N. Liveris • • • • • •
Mr. Andrew F. J. Gould • • • • – •
The primary role of the Compensation other employees and a celebratory grant
Committee is to oversee the Company’s plan, pursuant to which eligible employees
policy on compensation and its were awarded a one-time grant of
implementation. The Compensation restricted share units following the IPO.
Committee reviews the annual individual The Compensation Committee also
compensation plans for Directors and Senior established an employee share purchase
Executives. The Compensation Committee plan to be implemented in the future.
also reviews and approves the annual The Compensation Committee also
compensation plans of other Company recommended to the Board that, concurrent
Executives. with the closing of the IPO, the Company
purchase from the Government shares with
The Compensation Committee held six a value of $1.0 billion for use under the Share
meetings in 2019. During the year the Plan and all sub-plans.
Compensation Committee appointed an
independent compensation consultant, The Compensation Committee discussed
Pearl Meyer, who attended all Compensation and evaluated remuneration policies and
Committee meetings in 2019. The decisions applicable to the Company’s key
Compensation Committee reviewed and management personnel, including Directors
submitted for Shareholder approval the Saudi and Senior Executives. The Compensation
Arabian Oil Company (Saudi Aramco) Share Committee made recommendations to the
Plan which regulates the grant of Company Board on the annual Company-wide
shares to Senior Executives and other eligible compensation plan and associated budget,
employees of the Company. The Share Plan and approved Director and Senior Executive
was subsequently approved by the compensation within the budget approved
Shareholder whereby the Compensation by the Board. The Compensation Committee
Committee approved sub-plans consisting reviewed and endorsed the performance
of two long-term incentive plans (one for targets for use in variable pay plans and
executives and one for other members of determined the overall performance of the
management), an incentive plan for certain Company for compensation purposes.
ecnanrevog
etaroproc
[Page 123]
121
Compensation and other interests
Compensation policy
The Company has a shareholder approved
policy which aims to ensure that its Directors
and Executives are paid in a manner that
promotes sustainable performance and is in
the long-term interest of the Company and
its shareholders, while attracting, retaining
and motivating the talent it requires to
achieve its business goals.
Board remuneration
Table 1 below sets out the remuneration of Board members consistent with the Company’s compensation policy and Bylaws.
Table 1: 2019 Board remuneration
Specific In-kind Expenses
All amounts in SAR amount benefits Total allowance
Independent Directors
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart 1,125,000 6,544 1,131,544 6,000
Mr. Andrew N. Liveris 1,125,000 6,544 1,131,544 9,000
Mr. Andrew F. J. Gould 1,125,000 6,544 1,131,544 10,500
Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans 1,125,000 6,544 1,131,544 15,000
Mr. Peter L. Cella 1,125,000 6,544 1,131,544 13,500
Total 5,625,000 32,720 5,657,720 54,000
Non-executive Directors
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan 1,125,000 9,086 1,134,086 6,000
H.E Dr. Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf 1,125,000 6,544 1,131,544 7,500
H.E. Mohammed A. Al-Jadaan 1,125,000 6,544 1,131,544 6,000
H.E. Mohammad M. Al-Tuwaijri 1,125,000 6,544 1,131,544 7,500
H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi 670,553 1,200 671,753 –
H.E. Khalid A. Al-Falih 1,125,000 96,439 1,221,439 6,000
Total 6,295,553 126,357 6,421,910 33,000
Executive Directors
Mr. Amin H. Nasser – – – –
Total – – – –
Total 11,920,553 159,077 12,079,630 87,000
The Directors did not receive any other fixed or variable remuneration during 2019.
In accordance with the Company’s Bylaws, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors sets Director remuneration, without exceeding
SAR 1.8 million for each member per year. Non-executive/Independent members of the Board receive an annual fixed fee, reimbursement of any
travel expenses and health, welfare, and accommodation benefits for their service. Committee members receive no additional remuneration for
their service on Board Committees. Executive members of the Board are not remunerated for their service as Directors.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 124]
122
Directors’ & Senior Executives’ Table 2 illustrates shares held by Senior
shareholdings Executives, their relatives, and changes that
occurred during 2019. No Senior Executive
No Members of the Board of Directors, nor
has any interest in debt instruments issued
their relatives, held shares in the Company/
by the Company and there were no
affiliates as at December 31, 2019. No
arrangements or agreements by which any
Director has any interest in debt instruments
of the Senior Executives waived any salary
issued by the Company and there were no
or compensation.
arrangements or agreements by which any
Director waived any salary or compensation.
Table 2: Senior Executives’ rights to shares or debt instruments
Ownership by Senior Executives
Description of any interest, contractually-based securities and subscription rights of the Senior Executives and their relatives in the Company’s/
affiliates’ shares or debt instruments.
Beginning of the year End of the year
Debt Debt
Name of interest holder # of shares instruments # of shares instruments Net change
Mr. Amin H. Nasser – – – – –
Mr. Mohammed Y. Al-Qahtani – – 17,868 – 17,868
Mr. Abdulaziz M. Al-Gudaimi – – 16,248 – 16,248
Mr. Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh – – – – –
Mr. Ahmad A. Al-Sa’adi – – 15,996 – 15,996
Mr. Muhammad M. Al-Saggaf – – 31,005 – 31,005
Mr. Nabeel A. Al-Mansour – – – – –
As of December 31, 2019 no Senior Executive or Director has received any Company shares through any compensation program.
Ownership by Senior Executives’ spouse and minors
Beginning of the year End of the year
Debt Debt
Name of interest holder # of shares instruments # of shares instruments Net change
Relatives of Mr. Amin H. Nasser – – – – –
Relatives of Mr. Mohammed Y. Al-Qahtani – – 1,000 – 1,000
Relatives of Mr. Abdulaziz M. Al-Gudaimi – – – – –
Relatives of Mr. Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh – – 4,314 – 4,314
Relatives of Mr. Ahmad A. Al-Sa’adi – – – – –
Relatives of Mr. Muhammad M. Al-Saggaf – – – – –
Relatives of Mr. Nabeel A. Al-Mansour – – 6,776 – 6,776
ecnanrevog
etaroproc
[Page 125]
123
Senior Executives’ remuneration
Table 3 sets out the aggregated remuneration paid to the Company’s five highest paid Senior Executives, inclusive of the CEO and CFO positions.
Table 3: Remuneration paid to five highest paid executives including CEO and CFO
All amounts in SAR Fixed remunerations Variable remunerations
In-kind Short-term Long-term End of Aggregate
Senior Executives Salaries Allowances benefits Total incentive plans incentive plans Total service award amount
Total 12,317,100 6,469,666 2,437,726 21,224,492 18,457,776 5,185,330 23,643,106 23,838,720 68,706,318
Saudi Aramco’s compensation framework • Besides pension, savings plan and medical
for its Senior Executives is designed to services, benefits are primarily housing-
provide a balanced compensation package related allowances or equivalent, and
that includes base pay, variable pay and transportation-related allowances or
benefits as follows: equivalent. The nature and levels of
benefits for the Senior Executives are
• With respect to base pay, Saudi Aramco
periodically reviewed and approved by
considers the level and demands of the
the Compensation Committee.
position, including duties and responsibilities,
as well as the educational qualifications, • End-of-service awards represent the
practical experience, skills, performance, annual incremental value to the employee
and seniority of the individual, all within of pension provisions and end-of-service
the context of market conditions and severance provisions, all of which are paid
pay practices at peers and other relevant post-employment.
companies.
• With respect to variable pay, Saudi
Aramco offers variable compensation
that is market-aligned and subject to the
fulfillment of predefined performance
goals. Two key variable pay plans are
used: (i) a Short-Term Incentive Plan (STIP),
an annual cash-based plan designed
to reward performance in three areas
(financial, operational, and safety &
sustainability), and (ii) a Long-Term
Incentive Plan (LTIP) which for 2019 is
cash-based. The LTIP is based on three-
year financial and strategic performance
of Saudi Aramco. The value reported for
2019 represents vested amounts from
previous performance periods.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 126]
124
Governance, risk, and compliance
The Company has adopted and implemented Interests in voting shares Conversion or subscription rights under
certain corporate governance policies There are no interests in any class of voting any convertible debt instruments,
and procedures specified in the Corporate shares held by persons who have notified contractually-based securities, warrants
Governance Regulations and is working to the Company of their holdings pursuant or similar rights issued or granted
implement certain additional policies and to Article 68 of the Rules on the Offer The Company did not issue or grant any
procedures that it believes are appropriate for of securities and Continuing Obligations. conversion or subscription rights under any
a company of its size, structure and industry. convertible debt instruments, contractually-
Moreover, the Company has implemented Investments made or any reserves based securities, warrants or similar rights.
a Code of Business Conduct which provides set up for the benefit of the employees Refer to the preceding paragraph for
guidelines to the Directors, Senior disclosure on convertible debt instruments,
All amounts in millions SAR 2019 2018
Management, employees and contract contractual securities, preemptive right or
employees of Saudi Aramco and its Pension plans (1,600) (1,080) similar rights issued or granted by the
controlled affiliates regarding, among other Medical and other post- Company.
things, health, safety and environmental employment benefit plans 22,774 24,289
protection, competition and antitrust, Net benefit liability 21,174 23,209 Redeemable debt instruments
anti-bribery and anti-corruption, insider The Company did not redeem, purchase
trading and compliance with applicable law. For details regarding investments made or cancel any redeemable debt instruments.
or any reserves set up for the benefit of
Risk management the employees, refer to Note 20 of the Number of Saudi Aramco’s requests
Consolidated Financial Statements contained for shareholders’ records in 2019
The Board routinely assesses the Company’s
in Section 7.
risks that could impact its business model No. Request date Request rationale
and/or, future performance. The Company’s Shares and debt instruments issued 1 December 11 Shareholder analysis
risk management framework and risk factors
for each affiliate company 2 December 31 Disclosure purposes
are outlined in Section 5: Risk.
For details regarding shares and debt
instruments issued for each affiliate company, Related party transactions
Board of Directors declarations
see Section 8: Additional Information. For details of related party transactions,
The Board of Directors declares the following: see Section 8: Additional Information.
Convertible debt instruments,
• The accounting records were properly
contractual securities, preemptive rights Dividend distribution policy and
prepared;
or similar rights issued or granted dividends framework
• The system of internal control is sound On December 11, 2019, the Company Pursuant to the Bylaws, the Board has sole
in design and has been effectively acquired 117,187,500 ordinary shares from discretion to declare dividends with respect
implemented; and the Government for cash consideration of to the outstanding shares in accordance with
SAR 3.75 billion, which continue to be held the Company’s Dividend Distribution Policy.
• There are no doubts on the Company’s
at December 31, 2019. These shares are However, it is under no obligation to do so.
ability to continue business.
held by the Company as treasury shares The amount and frequency of any dividends
for the purposes of issuing them to the will depend on a number of factors, including
Saudi Aramco declarations
Company’s employees upon the vesting the Company’s historic and anticipated
SOCPA endorsed IFRS compliant of the grant award and any other employee earnings and cash flow, the Company’s
The consolidated financial statements shares plans that the Company may adopt financial obligations and capital
have been prepared in accordance with in the future. For further details, refer to requirements, general economic and market
International Financial Reporting Standards Note 16 and 17 of the Consolidated Financial conditions and other factors deemed relevant
(IFRS), that are endorsed in the Kingdom, Statements contained in Section 7. by the Board. The Company’s expectations in
and other standards and pronouncements connection with these factors are subject to
issued by SOCPA. The consolidated financial numerous assumptions, risks and
statements are also in compliance with uncertainties, which may be beyond the
IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Company’s control. For a discussion of the
Standards Board (IASB). risks related to the payment of dividends, see
Section 5: Risk; risks related to payment of
dividends on the shares.
ecnanrevog
etaroproc
[TABLE DATA]
(1,600)
22,774
21,174
[Page 127]
125
The Company pays dividends to non- The Company’s Dividend Distribution Policy calendar years 2020 through 2024 would
Government shareholders in SAR and to the was approved by the Shareholder on have been less than $0.09375 per share
Government in U.S. Dollars. All shares have September 26, 2019. The policy states that it (based on 200,000,000,000 shares
the same entitlement to any dividends is the intention of the Board, in its discretion, outstanding) but for the Government
declared by the Board and any dividends to declare dividends on a regular basis with forgoing its rights to such dividend as
are and will be distributed in compliance a view to building long-term shareholder follows, the Government will forgo its right
with applicable tax laws. value and providing sustainable dividend to receive the portion of cash dividends on
growth. In addition, the policy provides that its shares equal to the amount necessary
In 2017, 2018 and 2019, the Company’s dividends may be declared from net profits to enable the Company to first pay the
dividend payments to the Government only after the Company has: minimum quarterly cash dividend amount
were SAR 187.8 billion ($50.1 billion), described above to holders of shares other
• ensured that dividends are capable of
SAR 217.5 billion ($58.0 billion) and than the Government, after which the
being distributed by the Company with
SAR 274.4 billion ($73.2 billion), respectively. remaining amount available for distribution
reference to its most current financial
with respect to such quarter, as determined
statements;
In December 2019, the Company declared an by the Board in its discretion, will be paid
interim ordinary dividend of SAR 35.5 billion • established any reserves to meet to the Government.
($9.5 billion), which was prior to the contingencies as determined from time
allocation of shares to investors in the to time at the discretion of the Board; and In addition, (a) dividends forgone will not
Company’s IPO and was paid to the accrue or otherwise be paid to the
• taken into consideration its working
Government as the Company’s sole Government and (b) the waiver applies to
capital requirements, near-term liquidity
shareholder as at such date. On March 12, all shares not held by the Government from
and any other factors or considerations
2020, the Company declared an ordinary time to time, including without limitation
that may be relevant in this regard,
dividend of SAR 14.8 billion ($3.9 billion) with any shares held by shareholders other than
including but not limited to the
respect to the interim period between the the Government that are offered following
implications of any dividend distributions
date of allocation of the Company’s shares to the IPO and held from 2020 to 2024.
on the Company’s capital structure, credit
investors in its IPO and December 31, 2019
ratings and publicly communicated
and is payable to holders of shares as at the Punishments and penalties
gearing targets.
record date for payment of such dividend as The Company is committed to the highest
declared by the Board of Directors. standards of governance and complies with
Royal Order No. A/42, dated 26/1/1441H
applicable laws and regulations. The Company
(corresponding to September 25, 2019)
is not aware of any penalty, precautionary
provides that, to the extent that the Board
procedure or preventative measure imposed
determines that the amount of any quarterly
on it by any authority, supervisory, regulatory
cash dividend declared with respect to
or judicial body in 2019.
Compliance with CMA Corporate Governance Regulations
The Company has implemented all the provisions contained in the Corporate Governance Regulations issued by the CMA that can be found
publicly on the CMA website, except the provisions noted below:
Article No. Provision of the Article Justification
20(c)(10) (c) By way of example, the following negate the independence The Company acknowledges that one of its independent
requirement for an Independent Director: Directors has served on the Board of Directors for more than nine
years. While this provision remains a Guiding Article until the end
(10) if he/she served for more than nine years, consecutive of this Director's current term (his term started prior to January 1,
or inconsecutive, as a Board member of the Company. 2019), the Company evaluates the independence of each of its
independent Directors annually and has determined that all are
able to perform the duties and exercise the independent
judgment required of the role.
95 (Guiding Article) If the Board forms a corporate governance committee, it shall While this is a Guiding Article, the Board has charged the
assign to it the competences (sic) stipulated in Article (94) of Nomination Committee, formed pursuant to the Company
these Regulations. Such committee shall oversee any matters Bylaws, with the responsibility of overseeing and making
relating to the implementation of governance, and shall recommendations to the Board with respect to the Company's
provide the Board with its reports and recommendations corporate governance policies and practices, including the
at least annually. competencies of effective governance described in Article 94
of the Regulations.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 130]
128
Independent auditor’s report to the shareholders of Saudi Arabian
Oil Company
Report on the audit of the consolidated financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the
consolidated financial position of Saudi Arabian Oil Company (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries
(together the “Group”) as at December 31, 2019, and its consolidated financial performance and its
consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards, that are endorsed in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and other standards and pronouncements
issued by the Saudi Organization for Certified Public Accountants (SOCPA).
What we have audited
The Group’s consolidated financial statements comprise:
• the consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2019;
• the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2019;
• the consolidated balance sheet as at December 31, 2019;
• the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended December 31, 2019;
• the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2019; and
• the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting
policies.
Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing, that are endorsed in the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s
responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
opinion.
Independence
We are independent of the Group in accordance with the code of professional conduct and ethics, endorsed
in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial statements and
we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers, License No. 25, Saudi Aramco, P.O. Box 1659, Dhahran 31311, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
T: +966 (13) 873-6800, F: +966 (13) 873-8883, www.pwc.com/middle-east
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
[Page 131]
129
Independent auditor’s report to the shareholders of Saudi Arabian
Oil Company (continued)
Our audit approach
Overview
• We determined overall Group materiality taking into account the profit-
oriented nature of the Group.
• Based on income before income taxes of SAR 666.7 billion, we determined
our overall Group materiality at SAR 26.3 billion.
Materiality • Our quantitative threshold for reporting misstatements to those charged
with governance was set at SAR 2.0 billion.
Based on their size, complexity and risk:
• We considered the Company’s standalone operations and three other
Group
components located in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the United States of
scoping
America and the Republic of Korea as significant to the Group audit; and
• We also determined a number of other components to be in scope for the
Group audit, in respect of which appropriate audit procedures were
performed.
Key audit
matters Our key audit matters comprise the following:
• Carrying values of property, plant and equipment and investments in joint
ventures and associates; and
• Adoption of IFRS 16, Leases.
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement
in the consolidated financial statements. In particular, we considered where the Board of Directors made
subjective judgments; for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making
assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also
addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including among other matters,
consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due
to fraud.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. An audit is designed to obtain
reasonable assurance whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement.
Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if, individually or in aggregate,
they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the
consolidated financial statements.
Based on our professional judgment, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality,
including the overall Group materiality for the consolidated financial statements as a whole as set out in the
table below. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit
and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both
individually and in aggregate, on the consolidated financial statements as a whole.
2
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 132]
130
Independent auditor’s report to the shareholders of Saudi Arabian
Oil Company (continued)
Overall Group
SAR 26.3 billion (2018: SAR 37.5 billion)
materiality
How we
Approximately 4% (2018: 5%) of income before income taxes
determined it
Rationale for • Income before income taxes is an important benchmark for the Group’s
the materiality stakeholders and is generally accepted benchmark for profit-oriented groups.
benchmark • We reduced our benchmark percentage to align with the change in the Group’s
applied profile given the initial public offering in the current year.
We agreed with those charged with governance that we would report to them misstatements identified
during our audit above SAR 2.0 billion.
How we tailored our Group audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on
the consolidated financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group, the
accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group’s operations are conducted through many components in several parts of the world. The most
significant component within the Group is the Company itself and most of the audit effort was spent by the
Group engagement team based on a full-time basis in Dhahran, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The Group
engagement team tested IT general controls, application and manual controls over systems and processes
related to the Company’s financial information supplemented by tests of detail. Certain audit procedures
were carried out centrally by the Group engagement team assisted by our internal accounting, valuations,
pensions, tax and IT experts and specialists. The Group engagement team also coordinated the Group audit
across different locations and performed audit procedures on the consolidation workings and disclosures.
We identified three further significant components, located in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the United
States of America and the Republic of Korea, where a full scope audit on the respective components’
financial information was performed under our instructions. Members of the Group engagement team
performed the full scope audit of the significant component located in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Component teams in the United States of America and the Republic of Korea performed full scope audits
at those locations. We also requested other teams to perform audit procedures on several other components.
This was based on qualitative and quantitative considerations, including whether the component accounted
for a significant proportion of individual consolidated financial statement line items or represented a recent
business combination. These components were located in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Guernsey,
Bermuda and the Netherlands.
The Group engagement team’s involvement in the audit work performed by component teams considered
the relative significance and complexity of the individual component. This included allocating overall
materiality to the different components, sending formal instructions, obtaining regular updates on progress
and results of procedures as well as review of deliverables and the underlying work papers.
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our
audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the
context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon,
and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
3
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
[Page 133]
131
Independent auditor’s report to the shareholders of Saudi Arabian
Oil Company (continued)
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit
matter
Carrying values of property, plant and
equipment and investments in joint
ventures and associates
Management performs a formal assessment at We assessed the reasonableness of management’s
each reporting period-end to consider whether considerations relating to impairment triggers
there is any indication that items of property, considering our knowledge of internal and external
plant and equipment or investments in joint factors.
ventures and associates may be impaired.
With input from our internal valuation experts, we
When such triggers are identified, valuation performed the following procedures on management’s
models are prepared to determine recoverable valuation models, as appropriate:
amounts for the relevant Cash Generating Units
(“CGUs”). Based on these models, management • Considered the appropriateness of the assets and
ensures that assets are not carried at more than liabilities allocated to CGUs;
their recoverable amounts. • Compared a sample of forecast prices to market
data points;
A number of valuation models were prepared by • Considered the consistency of certain unobservable
management as part of their 2019 impairment inputs such as expected product volumes and
considerations. These represented value-in-use future operating and development costs with
calculations based on discounted cash flows. approved business plans;
The key estimates and assumptions underlying • Evaluated the reasonableness of approved business
these models included:
plans by comparison to historical results;
• Assessed the reasonableness of the approach and
• Forecast prices;
inputs used to determine terminal values;
• Expected product volumes; • Evaluated the reasonableness of discount rates by
• Future operating and development costs;
cross-checking the underlying assumptions against
• Terminal values; and
observable market data; and
• Discount rates. • Sensitized key assumptions to assess the potential
impact on recoverable amounts of a range of
The recoverable amounts computed using possible outcomes.
valuation models, in all cases, were in excess of
the carrying values of the CGUs. As a result, no
We also considered the appropriateness of the related
impairment charges were recorded in the accounting policies and disclosures in the
consolidated financial statements. consolidated financial statements.
We considered this to be a key audit matter
given the judgment involved in identifying
impairment triggers and the complexity
inherent in valuation modelling.
Refer to Note 2(d), Note 2(h), Note 5 and Note 7
to the consolidated financial statements for
further information.
4
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
Key audit matter |  | How our audit addressed the key audit |
|  | matter |
Carrying values of property, plant and
equipment and investments in joint
ventures and associates
Management performs a formal assessment at
each reporting period-end to consider whether
there is any indication that items of property,
plant and equipment or investments in joint
ventures and associates may be impaired.
When such triggers are identified, valuation
models are prepared to determine recoverable
amounts for the relevant Cash Generating Units
(“CGUs”). Based on these models, management
ensures that assets are not carried at more than
their recoverable amounts.
A number of valuation models were prepared by
management as part of their 2019 impairment
considerations. These represented value-in-use
calculations based on discounted cash flows.
The key estimates and assumptions underlying
these models included:
• Forecast prices;
• Expected product volumes;
• Future operating and development costs;
• Terminal values; and
• Discount rates.
The recoverable amounts computed using
valuation models, in all cases, were in excess of
the carrying values of the CGUs. As a result, no
impairment charges were recorded in the
consolidated financial statements.
We considered this to be a key audit matter
given the judgment involved in identifying
impairment triggers and the complexity
inherent in valuation modelling.
Refer to Note 2(d), Note 2(h), Note 5 and Note 7
to the consolidated financial statements for
further information. | We assessed the reasonableness of management’s
considerations relating to impairment triggers
considering our knowledge of internal and external
factors.
With input from our internal valuation experts, we
performed the following procedures on management’s
valuation models, as appropriate:
• Considered the appropriateness of the assets and
liabilities allocated to CGUs;
• Compared a sample of forecast prices to market
data points;
• Considered the consistency of certain unobservable
inputs such as expected product volumes and
future operating and development costs with
approved business plans;
• Evaluated the reasonableness of approved business
plans by comparison to historical results;
• Assessed the reasonableness of the approach and
inputs used to determine terminal values;
• Evaluated the reasonableness of discount rates by
cross-checking the underlying assumptions against
observable market data; and
• Sensitized key assumptions to assess the potential
impact on recoverable amounts of a range of
possible outcomes.
We also considered the appropriateness of the related
accounting policies and disclosures in the
consolidated financial statements. |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  | We assessed the reasonableness of management’s |
|  | considerations relating to impairment triggers |
|  | considering our knowledge of internal and external |
|  | factors. |
|  |  |
|  | With input from our internal valuation experts, we |
|  | performed the following procedures on management’s |
|  | valuation models, as appropriate: |
|  |  |
|  | • Considered the appropriateness of the assets and |
|  | liabilities allocated to CGUs; |
|  | • Compared a sample of forecast prices to market |
|  | data points; |
|  | • Considered the consistency of certain unobservable |
|  | inputs such as expected product volumes and |
|  | future operating and development costs with |
|  | approved business plans; |
|  | • Evaluated the reasonableness of approved business |
|  | plans by comparison to historical results; |
|  | • Assessed the reasonableness of the approach and |
|  | inputs used to determine terminal values; |
|  | • Evaluated the reasonableness of discount rates by |
|  | cross-checking the underlying assumptions against |
|  | observable market data; and |
|  | • Sensitized key assumptions to assess the potential |
|  | impact on recoverable amounts of a range of |
|  | possible outcomes. |
|  |  |
|  | We also considered the appropriateness of the related |
|  | accounting policies and disclosures in the |
|  | consolidated financial statements. |
|  |  |
Carrying values of property, plant and
equipment and investments in joint
ventures and associates
Management performs a formal assessment at
each reporting period-end to consider whether
there is any indication that items of property,
plant and equipment or investments in joint
ventures and associates may be impaired.
When such triggers are identified, valuation
models are prepared to determine recoverable
amounts for the relevant Cash Generating Units
(“CGUs”). Based on these models, management
ensures that assets are not carried at more than
their recoverable amounts.
A number of valuation models were prepared by
management as part of their 2019 impairment
considerations. These represented value-in-use
calculations based on discounted cash flows.
The key estimates and assumptions underlying
these models included:
• Forecast prices;
• Expected product volumes;
• Future operating and development costs;
• Terminal values; and
• Discount rates.
The recoverable amounts computed using
valuation models, in all cases, were in excess of
the carrying values of the CGUs. As a result, no
impairment charges were recorded in the
consolidated financial statements.
We considered this to be a key audit matter
given the judgment involved in identifying
impairment triggers and the complexity
inherent in valuation modelling.
Refer to Note 2(d), Note 2(h), Note 5 and Note 7
to the consolidated financial statements for
further information.
[Page 134]
132
Independent auditor’s report to the shareholders of Saudi Arabian
Oil Company (continued)
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit
matter
Adoption of IFRS 16, Leases
The Group adopted IFRS 16, Leases from the We performed the following procedures:
mandatory adoption date of January 1, 2019. This
standard superseded the requirements of IAS 17, • Gained an understanding of management’s
Leases. IFRS 16 introduced a single lease implementation plan and the processes and
accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise, controls introduced as part of the IFRS 16
in most cases, a right-of-use asset and a lease adoption;
liability. • Tested completeness of management’s lease
register by considering the reconciliation of the
As part of the adoption exercise, management: lease liabilities recognised as at January 1, 2019
to the operating lease commitments as at
• Performed an extensive exercise to identify and December 31, 2018, as disclosed in the
assess significant lease arrangements. This was consolidated financial statements;
inherently complex given the large number of • Obtained the detailed lease schedules
contracts in place and the diverse nature of the underlying the transitional adjustments
underlying terms and conditions; recorded as at January 1, 2019 and the lease
• Implemented system changes and set up new balances recognised as at December 31, 2019
processes and controls to deal with the new and tested their mathematical accuracy; and
lease accounting methodology; and • For samples selected from both the above-
• Determined the appropriate transitional mentioned schedules, tested the following, as
adjustments and the disclosures required to be appropriate:
included in the consolidated financial
statements. (a) Management’s assessment of whether or
not the contracts contained leases;
The Group adopted IFRS 16 using the modified (b) Appropriateness of the practical
retrospective approach and did not restate expedients applied;
comparative figures. A number of practical (c) Calculations of the right-to-use assets and
expedients were applied and there was no impact the corresponding lease liabilities as at
on opening retained earnings. Right-of-use assets January 1, 2019 and December 31, 2019
and corresponding lease liabilities amounting to and the movements during the year;
SAR 26.1 billion were recognised as at January 1, (d) Appropriateness of the key judgments
2019 for arrangements previously classified as underlying the determination of lease
operating leases. terms; and
(e) Reasonableness of the discount rates used
We considered this to be a key audit matter as: (a) with reference to incremental borrowing
contracts within the scope of IFRS 16 may not be rates.
appropriately identified or included in the
transitional impact calculations; and (b) We also considered the appropriateness of the
determination of the right-of-use assets and the accounting policies and disclosures included in the
corresponding lease liabilities involves complex consolidated financial statements in relation to
computations and significant management IFRS 16.
judgment relating to the lease terms.
Refer to Note 2(c)(i), Note 2(i), Note 5 and Note 19
to the consolidated financial statements for
further information.
5
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
[TABLE DATA]
Key audit matter |  | How our audit addressed the key audit |
|  | matter |
[Page 135]
133
Independent auditor’s report to the shareholders of Saudi Arabian
Oil Company (continued)
Other information
The Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
Annual Report but does not include the consolidated financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other
information identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise
appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other
information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and those charged with governance for the
consolidated financial statements
The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, that are endorsed in the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and other standards and pronouncements issued by SOCPA, and the applicable
requirements of the Regulations for Companies and the Company’s Bylaws, and for such internal control
as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the
Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern
and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate
the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as
a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report
that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an
audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing, that are endorsed in the Kingdom
of Saudi Arabia, will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from
fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial
statements.
6
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 136]
134
Independent auditor’s report to the shareholders of Saudi Arabian
Oil Company (continued)
As part of an audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing, that are endorsed in the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism
throughout the audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether
due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit
evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting
a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal
control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures
that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Group’s internal control.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting
estimates and related disclosures made by the Board of Directors.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting
and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we
conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to
the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate,
to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our
auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a
going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements,
including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying
transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or
business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We
are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Group audit. We remain solely
responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope
and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal
control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant
ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related
safeguards.
7
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
[Page 137]
135
Independent auditor’s report to the shareholders of Saudi Arabian
Oil Company (continued)
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that
were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are
therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation
precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that
a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Bader I. Benmohareb
License No. 471
March 12, 2020
8
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 138]
136 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
Consolidated statement of income
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
Note 2019 2018 2019 2018
Revenue 23 1,105,696 1,194,376 294,852 318,500
Other income related to sales 131,089 152,641 34,957 40,704
Revenue and other income related to sales 1,236,785 1,347,017 329,809 359,204
Royalties and other taxes (182,141) (208,505) (48,571) (55,601)
Purchases 29 (225,170) (201,176) (60,045) (53,647)
Producing and manufacturing (58,249) (56,202) (15,533) (14,987)
Selling, administrative and general (36,647) (31,250) (9,773) (8,333)
Exploration (7,291) (7,928) (1,944) (2,114)
Research and development (2,150) (2,217) (573) (591)
Depreciation and amortization 5,6 (50,266) (41,334) (13,404) (11,023)
Operating costs (561,914) (548,612) (149,843) (146,296)
Operating income 674,871 798,405 179,966 212,908
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 7 (9,455) (1,415) (2,521) (377)
Finance and other income 24 7,351 3,865 1,960 1,030
Finance costs 19 (6,026) (2,959) (1,607) (789)
Income before income taxes 666,741 797,896 177,798 212,772
Income taxes 8 (336,048) (381,378) (89,613) (101,701)
Net income 330,693 416,518 88,185 111,071
Net income (loss) attributable to
Shareholders' equity 330,816 416,196 88,218 110,985
Non-controlling interests (123) 322 (33) 86
330,693 416,518 88,185 111,071
Earnings per share (basic and diluted) 35 1.65 2.08 0.44 0.55
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan Amin H. Nasser Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh
Chairman of the Board President & Chief Executive Officer Senior Vice President,
Finance, Strategy & Development
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
1,105,696 | 1,194,376
152,641 |  | 294,852
131,089 |  |  | 34,957
1,236,785 | 1,347,017 |  | 329,809
(182,141) | (208,505)
(201,176)
(56,202)
(31,250)
(7,928)
(2,217)
(41,334) |  | (48,571)
(225,170) |  |  | (60,045)
(58,249) |  |  | (15,533)
(36,647) |  |  | (9,773)
(7,291) |  |  | (1,944)
(2,150) |  |  | (573)
(50,266) |  |  | (13,404)
(561,914) | (548,612) |  | (149,843)
674,871 | 798,405
(1,415)
3,865
(2,959) |  | 179,966
(9,455) |  |  | (2,521)
7,351 |  |  | 1,960
(6,026) |  |  | (1,607)
666,741 | 797,896
(381,378) |  | 177,798
(336,048) |  |  | (89,613)
330,693 | 416,518 |  | 88,185
| 416,196
322 |  |
|  |  |
330,816 |  |  | 88,218
(123) |  |  | (33)
330,693 | 416,518 |  | 88,185
| 2.08 |  |
1.65 |  |  | 0.44
[Page 139]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 137
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
Note 2019 2018 2019 2018
Net income 330,693 416,518 88,185 111,071
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax 18
Items that will not be reclassified to net income
Remeasurement of post-employment benefit obligations 2,628 6,920 701 1,845
Change in post-employment benefit deferred tax due to income
tax rate change (464) (119) (123) (32)
Share of post-employment benefit obligations remeasurement
from joint ventures and associates 2 – – –
Change in equity investment deferred tax due to income
tax rate change 180 – 48 –
Changes in fair value of equity investments classified as fair value
through other comprehensive income 187 (811) 50 (216)
Share-based payment reserve 31 – 8 –
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to net income
Cash flow hedges and other (353) 36 (94) 10
Changes in fair value of debt securities classified as fair value
through other comprehensive income 59 (762) 16 (203)
Share of other comprehensive loss of joint ventures and associates (487) (283) (130) (76)
Currency translation differences (1,027) (1,110) (274) (296)
756 3,871 202 1,032
Total comprehensive income 331,449 420,389 88,387 112,103
Total comprehensive income (loss) attributable to
Shareholders' equity 331,896 420,524 88,506 112,139
Non-controlling interests (447) (135) (119) (36)
331,449 420,389 88,387 112,103
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan Amin H. Nasser Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh
Chairman of the Board President & Chief Executive Officer Senior Vice President,
Finance, Strategy & Development
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
330,693 | 416,518
6,920
(119)
–
–
(811)
–
36
(762)
(283)
(1,110) |  | 88,185
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
2,628 |  |  | 701
(464) |  |  | (123)
2 |  |  | –
180 |  |  | 48
187 |  |  | 50
31 |  |  | 8
|  |  |
(353) |  |  | (94)
59 |  |  | 16
(487) |  |  | (130)
(1,027) |  |  | (274)
756 | 3,871 |  | 202
331,449 | 420,389 |  | 88,387
| 420,524
(135) |  |
|  |  |
331,896 |  |  | 88,506
(447) |  |  | (119)
331,449 | 420,389 |  | 88,387
[Page 140]
138 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
Consolidated balance sheet
SAR USD*
At December 31 At December 31
Note 2019 2018 2019 2018
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 5 982,014 873,827 261,870 233,021
Intangible assets 6 30,122 26,896 8,033 7,172
Investments in joint ventures and associates 7 19,738 22,579 5,263 6,021
Deferred income tax assets 8 12,728 9,866 3,394 2,631
Other assets and receivables 9 21,372 13,127 5,699 3,501
Investments in securities 10 19,956 17,214 5,322 4,590
1,085,930 963,509 289,581 256,936
Current assets
Inventories 11 42,607 43,580 11,362 11,621
Trade receivables 12 93,526 93,818 24,940 25,018
Due from the Government 13 36,781 48,864 9,808 13,030
Other assets and receivables 9 12,109 13,775 3,230 3,673
Short-term investments 14 45,467 194 12,125 52
Cash and cash equivalents 15 177,706 183,152 47,388 48,841
408,196 383,383 108,853 102,235
Total assets 1,494,126 1,346,892 398,434 359,171
Equity and liabilities
Shareholders' equity
Share capital 60,000 60,000 16,000 16,000
Additional paid-in capital 26,981 26,981 7,195 7,195
Treasury shares 16 (3,750) – (1,000) –
Retained earnings:
Unappropriated 943,758 920,625 251,669 245,500
Appropriated 6,000 6,000 1,600 1,600
Other reserves 18 2,076 3,176 553 847
1,035,065 1,016,782 276,017 271,142
Non-controlling interests 11,170 11,653 2,979 3,107
1,046,235 1,028,435 278,996 274,249
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 19 150,690 71,329 40,184 19,021
Deferred income tax liabilities 8 44,471 23,877 11,859 6,367
Post-employment benefit obligations 20 21,174 23,209 5,646 6,189
Provisions 21 15,985 15,606 4,263 4,162
232,320 134,021 61,952 35,739
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 22 78,231 72,286 20,862 19,276
Obligations to the Government:
Income taxes 8 62,243 70,299 16,598 18,746
Dividend payable 34 35,475 – 9,460 –
Royalties 14,727 11,862 3,927 3,164
Borrowings 19 24,895 29,989 6,639 7,997
215,571 184,436 57,486 49,183
447,891 318,457 119,438 84,922
Total equity and liabilities 1,494,126 1,346,892 398,434 359,171
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan Amin H. Nasser Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh
Chairman of the Board President & Chief Executive Officer Senior Vice President,
Finance, Strategy & Development
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
| 873,827
26,896
22,579
9,866
13,127
17,214 |  |
|  |  |
982,014 |  |  | 261,870
30,122 |  |  | 8,033
19,738 |  |  | 5,263
12,728 |  |  | 3,394
21,372 |  |  | 5,699
19,956 |  |  | 5,322
1,085,930 | 963,509 |  | 289,581
| 43,580
93,818
48,864
13,775
194
183,152 |  |
42,607 |  |  | 11,362
93,526 |  |  | 24,940
36,781 |  |  | 9,808
12,109 |  |  | 3,230
45,467 |  |  | 12,125
177,706 |  |  | 47,388
408,196 | 383,383 |  | 108,853
1,494,126 | 1,346,892 |  | 398,434
| 60,000
26,981
–
920,625
6,000
3,176 |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
60,000 |  |  | 16,000
26,981 |  |  | 7,195
(3,750) |  |  | (1,000)
|  |  |
943,758 |  |  | 251,669
6,000 |  |  | 1,600
2,076 |  |  | 553
1,035,065 | 1,016,782
11,653 |  | 276,017
11,170 |  |  | 2,979
1,046,235 | 1,028,435 |  | 278,996
| 71,329
23,877
23,209
15,606 |  |
150,690 |  |  | 40,184
44,471 |  |  | 11,859
21,174 |  |  | 5,646
15,985 |  |  | 4,263
232,320 | 134,021 |  | 61,952
| 72,286
70,299
–
11,862
29,989 |  |
78,231 |  |  | 20,862
|  |  |
62,243 |  |  | 16,598
35,475 |  |  | 9,460
14,727 |  |  | 3,927
24,895 |  |  | 6,639
215,571 | 184,436 |  | 57,486
447,891 | 318,457 |  | 119,438
1,494,126 | 1,346,892 |  | 398,434
[Page 141]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 139
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
SAR USD*
Shareholders’ equity
Retained earnings
Additional Other Non-
Share paid-in Treasury reserves controlling
capital capital shares Unappropriated Appropriated1 (Note 18) interests Total Total
Balance at
January 1, 2018 60,000 26,981 – 715,107 6,000 5,670 12,556 826,314 220,350
Net income – – – 416,196 – – 322 416,518 111,071
Other comprehensive
income (loss) – – – – – 4,328 (457) 3,871 1,032
Total comprehensive
income (loss) – – – 416,196 – 4,328 (135) 420,389 112,103
Transfer of post-
employment benefit
obligations
remeasurement – – – 6,822 – (6,822) – – –
Dividends (Note 34) – – – (217,500) – – – (217,500) (58,000)
Change in control
of an affiliate – – – – – – 134 134 36
Dividends to
non-controlling interests – – – – – – (902) (902) (240)
Balance at
December 31, 2018 60,000 26,981 – 920,625 6,000 3,176 11,653 1,028,435 274,249
Net income (loss) – – – 330,816 – – (123) 330,693 88,185
Other comprehensive
income (loss) – – – – – 1,080 (324) 756 202
Total comprehensive
income (loss) – – – 330,816 – 1,080 (447) 331,449 88,387
Acquisition of treasury
shares (Note 16) – – (3,750) – – – – (3,750) (1,000)
Transfer of post-
employment benefit
obligations
remeasurement – – – 2,178 – (2,178) – – –
Transfer of share of
post-employment benefit
obligation remeasurement
from joint ventures and
associates – – – 2 – (2) – – –
Dividends (Note 34) – – – (309,863) – – – (309,863) (82,630)
Dividends to
non-controlling interests – – – – – – (36) (36) (10)
Balance at
December 31, 2019 60,000 26,981 (3,750) 943,758 6,000 2,076 11,170 1,046,235 278,996
1. Appropriated retained earnings represent a legal reserve as originally established under the 1988 Articles of the Saudi Arabian Oil Company which is not available for distribution (Note 1).
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan Amin H. Nasser Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh
Chairman of the Board President & Chief Executive Officer Senior Vice President,
Finance, Strategy & Development
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
60,000 | 26,981 | – | 920,625 | 6,000 | 3,176 | 11,653 | 1,028,435 |  | 274,249
– | – | – | 330,816 | – | – | (123) | 330,693 |  | 88,185
– | – | – | – | – | 1,080 | (324) | 756 |  | 202
– | – | – | 330,816 | – | 1,080 | (447) | 331,449 |  | 88,387
– | – | (3,750) | – | – | – | – | (3,750) |  | (1,000)
– | – | – | 2,178 | – | (2,178) | – | – |  | –
– | – | – | 2 | – | (2) | – | – |  | –
– | – | – | (309,863) | – | – | – | (309,863) |  | (82,630)
– | – | – | – | – | – | (36) | (36) |  | (10)
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
60,000 | 26,981 | (3,750) | 943,758 | 6,000 | 2,076 | 11,170 | 1,046,235 |  | 278,996
[Page 142]
140 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
Consolidated statement of cash flows
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
Note 2019 2018 2019 2018
Income before income taxes 666,741 797,896 177,798 212,772
Adjustments to reconcile income before income taxes
to net cash provided by operating activities
Depreciation and amortization 5,6 50,266 41,334 13,404 11,023
Exploration and evaluation costs written off 6 3,217 2,951 858 787
Gain on remeasurement of existing interest in equity investments 24,33 (1,278) (870) (341) (232)
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 7 9,455 1,415 2,521 377
Finance income 24 (5,534) (2,840) (1,476) (757)
Finance costs 19 6,026 2,959 1,607 789
Dividends from investments in securities 24 (509) (143) (136) (38)
Change in fair value of investments through profit or loss (620) (594) (165) (158)
Change in joint ventures and associates inventory profit elimination 7 240 103 64 27
Other 1,257 1,417 335 377
Change in working capital
Inventories 1,869 (6,455) 499 (1,721)
Trade receivables 727 (5,696) 194 (1,519)
Due from the Government 12,083 (7,968) 3,222 (2,124)
Other assets and receivables 3,268 (7,335) 872 (1,956)
Trade and other payables 3,430 5,343 915 1,425
Royalties payable 2,865 (8,548) 763 (2,279)
Other changes
Other assets and receivables (9,951) (1,117) (2,654) (298)
Provisions 330 (240) 88 (65)
Post-employment benefit obligations 1,119 (2,606) 298 (695)
Settlement of income and other taxes 8 (328,472) (355,305) (87,592) (94,748)
Net cash provided by operating activities 416,529 453,701 111,074 120,987
Capital expenditures 4 (122,882) (131,766) (32,769) (35,138)
Acquisition of affiliates, net of cash acquired 7, 33 (13,628) (8,571) (3,634) (2,285)
Distributions from joint ventures and associates 7 778 1,073 207 286
Additional investments in joint ventures and associates 7, 25 (341) (401) (91) (106)
Dividends from investments in securities 24 509 143 136 38
Interest received 4,561 2,942 1,216 784
Net investments in securities (868) (615) (231) (164)
Net (purchases) maturities of short-term investments (45,273) 5,990 (12,073) 1,597
Net cash used in investing activities (177,144) (131,205) (47,239) (34,988)
Dividends 31,34 (274,388) (217,500) (73,170) (58,000)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (36) (902) (10) (240)
Interest paid (5,715) (2,748) (1,524) (733)
Acquisition of treasury shares 16 (3,750) – (1,000) –
Proceeds from borrowings 51,960 11,660 13,856 3,109
Repayments of borrowings (12,902) (11,096) (3,440) (2,959)
Net cash used in financing activities (244,831) (220,586) (65,288) (58,823)
Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents (5,446) 101,910 (1,453) 27,176
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 183,152 81,242 48,841 21,665
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 177,706 183,152 47,388 48,841
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan Amin H. Nasser Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh
Chairman of the Board President & Chief Executive Officer Senior Vice President,
Finance, Strategy & Development
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
666,741 | 797,896
41,334
2,951
(870)
1,415
(2,840)
2,959
(143)
(594)
103
1,417
(6,455)
(5,696)
(7,968)
(7,335)
5,343
(8,548)
(1,117)
(240)
(2,606)
(355,305) |  | 177,798
|  |  |
50,266 |  |  | 13,404
3,217 |  |  | 858
(1,278) |  |  | (341)
9,455 |  |  | 2,521
(5,534) |  |  | (1,476)
6,026 |  |  | 1,607
(509) |  |  | (136)
(620) |  |  | (165)
240 |  |  | 64
1,257 |  |  | 335
|  |  |
1,869 |  |  | 499
727 |  |  | 194
12,083 |  |  | 3,222
3,268 |  |  | 872
3,430 |  |  | 915
2,865 |  |  | 763
|  |  |
(9,951) |  |  | (2,654)
330 |  |  | 88
1,119 |  |  | 298
(328,472) |  |  | (87,592)
416,529 | 453,701 |  | 111,074
| (131,766)
(8,571)
1,073
(401)
143
2,942
(615)
5,990 |  |
(122,882) |  |  | (32,769)
(13,628) |  |  | (3,634)
778 |  |  | 207
(341) |  |  | (91)
509 |  |  | 136
4,561 |  |  | 1,216
(868) |  |  | (231)
(45,273) |  |  | (12,073)
(177,144) | (131,205) |  | (47,239)
| (217,500)
(902)
(2,748)
–
11,660
(11,096) |  |
(274,388) |  |  | (73,170)
(36) |  |  | (10)
(5,715) |  |  | (1,524)
(3,750) |  |  | (1,000)
51,960 |  |  | 13,856
(12,902) |  |  | (3,440)
(244,831) | (220,586) |  | (65,288)
| 101,910
81,242 |  |
(5,446) |  |  | (1,453)
183,152 |  |  | 48,841
177,706 | 183,152 |  | 47,388
[Page 143]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 141
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
1. General information
The Saudi Arabian Oil Company (the “Company”), with headquarters located in Dhahran, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (the “Kingdom”), is engaged
in prospecting, exploring, drilling and extracting hydrocarbon substances (“Upstream”) and processing, manufacturing, refining and marketing
these hydrocarbon substances (“Downstream”). The Company was formed on November 13, 1988 by Royal Decree No. M/8; however, its history
dates back to May 29, 1933 when the Saudi Arabian Government (the “Government”) granted a concession to the Company’s predecessor the
right to, among other things, explore the Kingdom for hydrocarbons.
On December 20, 2017, Royal Decree No. M/37 dated 2/4/1439H was issued approving the Hydrocarbons Law which applies to the Kingdom’s
hydrocarbons and hydrocarbon operations. Under the Hydrocarbons Law, all hydrocarbon deposits, hydrocarbons and hydrocarbon resources
are the property of the Kingdom until ownership is transferred at the well head or when extracted. Further, the Hydrocarbons Law codifies the
Government’s sole authority to set the maximum amount of hydrocarbons production by the Company and the maximum sustainable capacity
that the Company must maintain.
All natural resources within the Kingdom, including hydrocarbons, are owned by the Kingdom. Through a concession in 1933, the Government
granted the Company the exclusive right to explore, develop and produce the Kingdom’s hydrocarbon resources, except in certain areas. As of
December 24, 2017, the Company’s original concession agreement was replaced and superseded by an amended concession agreement (the
“Concession Agreement”) which provides the Company the exclusive right to explore, drill, prospect, appraise, develop, extract, recover, and
produce hydrocarbons in the concession area. The Company is also provided the exclusive right to market and distribute hydrocarbons,
petroleum products and liquid petroleum gas (“LPG”) in the Kingdom along with the non-exclusive right to manufacture, refine, and treat
production and to market, sell, transport and export such production.
The initial term of the Concession Agreement is for 40 years which shall be extended by the Government for 20 years unless the Company does
not satisfy certain conditions commensurate with its then current operating practices. In addition, the Concession Agreement may be amended
and extended for an additional 40 years beyond the original 60-year period subject to the Company and the Government agreeing on the terms
of such extension.
Effective January 1, 2018, Council of Minister’s Resolution No. 180, dated 1/4/1439H (December 19, 2017) converted the Company to a Saudi
Joint Stock Company with new Bylaws. The Company’s 1988 Articles were cancelled as of January 1, 2018 pursuant to Royal Decree No. M/36,
dated 2/4/1439H (December 20, 2017). The Company’s share capital has been set at Saudi Riyal (“SAR”) 60,000, is fully paid and is divided into
200 billion ordinary shares with equal voting rights without par value. The Company’s Commercial Registration Number is 2052101150.
On December 11, 2019, the Company completed its Initial Public Offering (“IPO”) and its ordinary shares were listed on the Saudi Stock Exchange
(“Tadawul”). In connection with the IPO, the Government sold an aggregate of 3.45 billion ordinary shares, or 1.73% of the Company’s share
capital. In addition, concurrent with the IPO, the Company acquired 117.2 million of its ordinary shares from the Government for a cash payment
of SAR 3,750, which are being classified as treasury shares (Note 16). These shares will be used by the Company for its incentive and employee
share purchase plans (Note 17).
The consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries (together “Saudi Aramco”) were approved by the Board of Directors
on March 12, 2020.
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. The consolidated
financial statements provide comparative information in respect of the previous period.
(a) Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), that are
endorsed in the Kingdom, and other standards and pronouncements issued by the Saudi Organization for Certified Public Accountants
(“SOCPA”). The consolidated financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board
(“IASB”). Amounts and balances relating to Shari’a compliant financial instruments of the Company, its subsidiaries and investments are disclosed
separately. All other relevant amounts and balances relate to conventional financial instruments.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except for certain items measured at fair value
which are, primarily, investments in securities, derivatives and certain trade receivables. The accounting policies that follow have been consistently
applied to all years presented, unless otherwise stated.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 144]
142 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
On September 17, 2019, the following significant changes to the fiscal regime under which the Company operates were announced:
(i) T he Company and the Government executed an amendment to the Concession Agreement effective January 1, 2020, which changed the
effective royalty rate applied to crude oil production based on the Company’s official selling prices. The effective royalty rate is determined
based on a baseline marginal rate of 15% (from 20%) applied to prices up to $70 per barrel, increasing to 45% (from 40%) applied to prices
above $70 per barrel and 80% (from 50%) applied to prices above $100 per barrel.
(ii) E ffective January 1, 2020, LPGs and certain other products were added to the price equalization mechanism to compensate the Company
for revenue directly foregone as a result of the Company’s compliance with the Government mandates related to domestic sales of those
products by the Company.
(iii) E ffective January 1, 2020, the tax rate applicable to the Company’s Downstream activities was reduced from the 50% rate applicable
to qualified domestic oil and hydrocarbon production companies to the general corporate tax rate of 20% applicable to similar domestic
downstream companies under the Saudi Arabian Income Tax Law of 2004 and its amendments (the “Tax Law”). The new rate is conditioned
on the Company separating its Downstream activities under the control of one or more separate wholly owned subsidiaries before
December 31, 2024, otherwise the Company’s Downstream activities will be retroactively taxed at 50%. The Company expects to transfer
all its Downstream activities into a separate legal entity or entities within the period specified (Note 8).
(b) Significant accounting judgments and estimates
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to exercise judgment in applying Saudi
Aramco’s accounting policies and in the use of certain critical accounting estimates and assumptions concerning the future. Management has
made various judgments that may significantly impact the valuation and presentation of assets and liabilities. In addition, management also
applies judgment when undertaking the estimation procedures necessary to calculate assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. Accounting
estimates, by definition, may not equal the related actual results and are subject to change based on experience and new information. The areas
requiring the most significant judgments, estimates and assumptions in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are: accounting
for interests in subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates, recoverability of asset carrying amounts, determining the lease term, taxation,
provisions, post-retirement obligations and determination of functional currency and are set out in the individual accounting policies below.
(c) New or amended standards
(i) S audi Aramco adopted for the first time the following IASB pronouncement, as endorsed in the Kingdom, effective for annual periods
beginning on or after January 1, 2019:
IFRS 16, Leases
IFRS 16, Leases, as issued by the IASB in January 2016, replaced IAS 17, Leases, and relates to the recognition, measurement, presentation
and disclosure of leases. Saudi Aramco adopted IFRS 16, using the modified retrospective approach, from the mandatory adoption date of
January 1, 2019.
Under IAS 17, leased assets were classified as either finance or operating leases. Payments made under operating leases were charged to
net income on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. On adoption of IFRS 16, right-of-use assets and lease liabilities of SAR 26,051
were recognized for previously classified operating leases. These liabilities were measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments,
discounted using the incremental borrowing rate. For leases previously classified as finance leases, Saudi Aramco continued to recognize the
same carrying amount of the lease asset and lease liability as immediately before transition. There was no impact of adoption of IFRS 16 on the
opening retained earnings at January 1, 2019.
In accordance with the transition provisions in IFRS 16, comparative figures have not been restated and the following practical expedients were
applied on transition: a) the use of a single discount rate for a portfolio of leases with reasonably similar characteristics; b) reliance on previous
assessments on whether leases are onerous; c) the accounting for operating leases with a remaining lease term of less than 12 months at January
1, 2019 as short-term leases; d) the exclusion of initial direct costs for the measurement of the right-of-use asset at the date of initial application;
e) the use of hindsight in determining the lease term where the contract contains options to extend or terminate the lease and f) not to reassess
whether a contract is, or contains a lease at the date of initial application.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
[Page 145]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 143
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
The table below presents the reconciliation between operating lease commitments disclosed in the consolidated financial statements for the
year ended December 31, 2018 and the lease liability recognized at January 1, 2019. The weighted average incremental borrowing rate applied
to the lease liabilities on January 1, 2019 was 4.1%.
January 1,
2019
Operating lease commitments disclosed at December 31, 2018 35,565
Discounted using Saudi Aramco’s incremental borrowing rate at January 1, 2019 27,814
Add: finance lease liabilities recognized at December 31, 2018 13,058
(Less): short-term leases recognized on a straight-line basis (1,647)
(Less): low value leases recognized on a straight-line basis as expense (116)
Lease liability recognized at January 1, 2019 39,109
Current lease liabilities 6,439
Non-current lease liabilities 32,670
39,109
For further information on leases, refer to Notes 2(i), 5 and 19.
(ii) T here are no standards, amendments and interpretations that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by Saudi Aramco that
are expected to have a material impact in the current or future reporting periods or on foreseeable future transactions.
(iii) I n July 2017, the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”), announced
that the interest benchmark would cease after 2021. LIBOR is one of the most common series of benchmark interest rates. In September
2019, the IASB amended IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, and IFRS 9,
Financial Instruments, which modify some specific hedge accounting requirements to provide relief from potential effects of the uncertainty
caused by the Interbank Offered Rate (“IBOR”) reform. In addition, the amendments require companies to provide additional information
about their hedging relationships which are directly affected by these uncertainties. The amendments are effective beginning on January 1, 2020.
Additionally, the IASB is considering the potential consequences on financial reporting of replacing an existing benchmark with an
alternative. IBOR reforms and expectation of cessation of LIBOR will impact Saudi Aramco’s current risk management strategy and possibly
accounting for certain financial instruments used for hedging. Saudi Aramco has the following hedging instruments (Note 3(d)) which are
exposed to the impact of LIBOR:
• Financial Assets: SAR 13
• Financial Liabilities: SAR 338
Saudi Aramco uses financial instruments as part of its risk management strategy to manage exposures arising from variation of interest rates
that could affect net income or other comprehensive income and applies hedge accounting to these instruments. Saudi Aramco has certain
borrowings where the reference rate is linked to the LIBOR. Saudi Aramco is assessing the impact to ensure a smooth transition from LIBOR
to new benchmark rates.
(d) Principles of consolidation and equity accounting
(i) Subsidiaries
The consolidated financial statements reflect the assets, liabilities and operations of the Company and its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are entities
over which the Company has control. The Company controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement
with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which
the Company obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealized profits and losses arising from intragroup transactions, have been eliminated.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to align the accounting policies with those used by
the Company.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for business combinations. Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred. The cost
of the acquisition of a subsidiary is measured as the fair value of the assets transferred, liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquired
business, equity interests issued by the group, the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement and
the fair value of any pre-existing equity interest in the subsidiary. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in
a business combination are measured initially at fair value at the date the assets and liabilities are exchanged, irrespective of the extent of any
non-controlling interests. The excess of the cost of acquisition and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquired entity over the
fair value of the acquired identifiable net assets is recorded as goodwill. Non-controlling interests represent the equity in subsidiaries that is not
attributable, directly or indirectly, to Saudi Aramco.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
35,565
27,814
13,058
(1,647)
(116)
39,109
6,439
32,670
39,109
[Page 146]
144 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
Saudi Aramco recognizes any non-controlling interest in the acquired entity on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis either at fair value or at the
non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquired entity’s net identifiable assets. Non-controlling interests in the results and equity
of subsidiaries are shown separately in the Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement
of Changes in Equity, and the Consolidated Balance Sheet, respectively.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date carrying value of the previously held equity interest is remeasured
to fair value at the acquisition date with any gains or losses arising from such remeasurement recognized in net income.
(ii) Joint arrangements
Under IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements, an arrangement in which two or more parties have joint control is a joint arrangement. Joint control
is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the
unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. Investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures.
The classification depends on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor, rather than the legal structure of the joint arrangement.
Saudi Aramco has both joint operations and joint ventures.
1) Joint operations
Joint operations arise where the investors have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities of a joint arrangement. In relation to its
interests in joint operations, Saudi Aramco recognizes its:
– Assets, including its share of any assets held jointly;
– Liabilities, including its share of any liabilities incurred jointly;
– Revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from the joint operation; and
– Expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly.
2) Joint ventures
A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of
the joint arrangement. Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognized at cost.
Saudi Aramco’s share of results of its joint ventures is recognized within net income, while its share of post-acquisition movements in other
comprehensive income is recognized within other comprehensive income. The cumulative effect of these changes is adjusted against the carrying
amount of Saudi Aramco’s investments in joint ventures, which is presented separately in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. When Saudi Aramco’s
share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the joint venture, including any other unsecured non-current receivables,
Saudi Aramco does not recognize further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
Gains and losses on transactions between Saudi Aramco and joint ventures not realized through a sale to a third party are eliminated to the
extent of Saudi Aramco’s interest in the joint ventures. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of joint ventures
to align their accounting policies with those used by Saudi Aramco.
Saudi Aramco’s investments in joint ventures includes, when applicable, goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment
loss. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of Saudi Aramco’s share of the net identifiable assets of the
acquired joint venture at the date of acquisition. Dilution gains and losses arising from investments in joint ventures are recognized in net income.
Dividends received or receivable from joint ventures are recognized as a reduction in the carrying amount of the investment.
(iii) Associates
Associates are entities over which Saudi Aramco has significant influence. Significant influence is the power to participate in financial and
operating policy decisions but with no control or joint control over those policies and is generally reflected by a shareholding of between 20%
and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognized at
cost. The accounting policies for joint ventures detailed in Note 2(d)(ii)(2) above are also applied by Saudi Aramco to its associates.
Significant accounting judgments and estimates
Judgments are applied in the determination of whether control, joint control or significant influence is present with respect to investments in
non-wholly owned subsidiaries, joint arrangements or associates, respectively. For control, judgment is applied when determining if an entity is
controlled by voting rights, potential voting rights or other rights granted through contractual arrangements and includes considering an entity’s
purpose and design. For joint control, judgment is applied when assessing whether the arrangement is jointly controlled by all of its parties or
by a group of the parties by taking decisions about relevant activities through unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. For joint control,
judgment is also applied as to whether the joint arrangement is classified as a joint venture or joint operation taking into account specific facts
and circumstances, such as the purpose and design of the arrangement, including with respect to its output, its relationship to the parties and its
source of cash flows. For significant influence, judgment is applied in its determination by assessing factors such as representation on the board
of directors, participation in policy-making processes, material transactions with the entity, interchange of managerial personnel and provision
of essential technical information. Refer to Notes 7, 36, and 37.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
[Page 147]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 145
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
(e) Intangible assets
Intangible assets other than exploration and evaluation costs (Note 2(f)) consist primarily of brands and trademarks, franchise/customer
relationships and computer software. If acquired in a business combination, these intangible assets are recognized at their fair value at the date
of acquisition and, if acquired separately, these intangible assets are recognized at cost. All these intangible assets are subsequently amortized
on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
The following table sets forth estimated useful lives, in years, of the principal groups of these intangible assets:
Brands and trademarks 10 to 15
Franchise/customer relationships 5 to 10
Computer software 3 to 15
Amortization is recorded in depreciation and amortization in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
(f) Exploration and evaluation
Exploration and evaluation costs are recorded under the successful efforts method. Under the successful efforts method, geological and
geophysical costs are recognized as an expense when incurred and exploration costs associated with exploratory wells are initially capitalized
on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as an intangible asset until the drilling of the well is complete and the results have been evaluated. If potential
commercial quantities of hydrocarbons are found, these costs continue to be capitalized subject to further appraisal activities that would
determine the commercial viability and technical feasibility of the reserves. If potentially commercial quantities of hydrocarbons have not been
found, and no alternative use of the well is determined, the previously capitalized costs are written off to exploration in the Consolidated
Statement of Income.
Exploratory wells remain capitalized while additional appraisal drilling on the potential oil and/or gas field is performed or while optimum
development plans are established. All such capitalized costs are not subject to amortization, but at each reporting date are subject to regular
technical and management review to confirm the continued intent to develop, or otherwise extract value from the well. Where such intent no
longer exists, the costs are immediately written off to exploration in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Capitalized exploratory expenditures
are not subject to amortization but, at each reporting date, are subject to review for impairment indicators.
When proved reserves of hydrocarbons are determined and there is a firm plan for development approved by management, the relevant
capitalized costs are transferred to property, plant and equipment.
(g) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, if any.
Cost includes expenditures directly attributable to the construction and/or acquisition of the asset. Land and construction-in-progress are not
depreciated. When a construction-in-progress asset is deemed ready for use as intended by management, depreciation commences.
Subsequent expenditures including major renovations are included in an asset’s carrying amount, or recognized as a separate asset only when it
is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to Saudi Aramco and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
The carrying amount of the replaced item is derecognized. All other repair and maintenance expenditures are expensed as incurred. The present
value of the expected cost for the decommissioning of an asset after its use is included in the cost of the respective asset if the recognition
criteria for a provision are met (Note 2(u)).
Where the life of expected hydrocarbon reserves substantially exceeds the economic or technical lives of the underlying assets, the straight-line
method of depreciation is used on a field by field basis. The unit of production method is used for fields where the expected reserve life is
approximately equal to or less than the estimated useful lives of the underlying assets. Depletion rates are calculated on the basis of a group of
wells or fields with similar characteristics based on proved developed reserves. The estimation of expected reserve lives reflects management’s
assessment of proved developed reserves and the related depletion strategy on a field-by-field basis. Depreciation expense on all other assets is
calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost less residual values over the estimated useful lives. Depreciation expense is recorded
in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Depreciation expense is calculated after determining an estimate of an asset’s expected useful life and the expected residual value at the end
of its useful life. The useful lives and residual values are determined by management at the time the asset is initially recognized and reviewed
annually for appropriateness or when events or conditions occur that impact capitalized costs, hydrocarbon reserves or estimated useful lives.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 148]
146 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
The following table sets forth estimated useful lives or, the lease term, if shorter, for right-of-use assets (Note 2(i)), in years of the principal groups
of depreciable assets:
Crude oil facilities:
Pipelines and storage tanks 12 to 23
Drilling and construction equipment 5 to 25
Oil and gas properties 15 to 30
Marine equipment 13 to 30
Refinery and petrochemical facilities 5 to 40
Gas and Natural Gas Liquids (“NGL”) facilities 2 to 30
General service plant:
Permanent buildings 20 to 40
Roads and walkways 10 to 20
Aircraft 8 to 17
Autos and trucks 3 to 20
Office furniture and equipment 6 to 8
Computer equipment 3 to 5
Net gains and losses on disposals of depreciable assets are recognized in net income. Property, plant and equipment held under a finance lease
is depreciated over the life of the asset or the lease term, if shorter.
(h) Impairment of non-financial assets
Saudi Aramco assesses, at each reporting date, whether there is an indication that a non-financial asset may be impaired except that goodwill
is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis. If an indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the asset’s
recoverable amount is estimated. An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable
amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal or value in use (“VIU”). The fair value less costs of
disposal calculation is based on either post-tax discounted cash flow models or available data from binding arm’s length sales transactions
for similar assets or observable market prices less incremental costs for disposing of the asset. The VIU calculation is based on a post-tax risk
adjusted discounted cash flow model. The use of post-tax discount rates in determining value in use does not result in a materially different
determination of the need for, or the amount of, impairment that would be required if pre-tax discount rates had been used.
Impairment losses are recognized as a component of net income. If, in a subsequent period, the amount of a non-goodwill impairment loss
decreases, a reversal of the previously recognized impairment loss is recognized in net income.
Significant accounting judgments and estimates
Impairment tests are undertaken on the basis of the smallest identifiable group of assets (cash-generating unit), or individual assets, for which
there are largely independent cash inflows. The key assumptions used to determine the different cash-generating units involves significant
judgment from management.
For the purposes of determining whether impairment of oil, gas, refining or petrochemical assets has occurred, and the extent of any impairment
or its reversal, the key assumptions management uses in estimating future cash flows for its VIU calculations are forecasted future oil and gas
and chemical prices, expected production volumes, future operating and development costs, refining and petrochemical margins and changes
to the discount rate used for the discounted cash flow model. There is an inherent uncertainty over forecasted information and assumptions.
Changes in these assumptions and forecasts could impact the recoverable amounts of assets and any calculated impairment and reversals thereof.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
[Page 149]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 147
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
(i) Leases
Saudi Aramco’s portfolio of leased assets mainly comprises drilling rigs, marine vessels, industrial facilities, equipment, aircraft and vehicles. The
determination of whether the contract is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the contract at the inception of the lease. A contract
is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Saudi Aramco recognizes right-of-use assets and lease liabilities at the lease commencement date. Right-of-use assets are initially measured
at cost, which comprises lease liabilities at initial measurement, any initial direct costs incurred, any lease payments made at or before the
commencement date, and restoration costs less any lease incentives received. Subsequent to initial recognition the right-of-use assets are
measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any, and adjusted for any remeasurement of the lease
liability. Right-of-use assets are depreciated over the shorter of the asset's useful life and the lease term on a straight-line basis unless the lease
transfers ownership of the underlying asset by the end of the lease term or if the cost of the asset reflects the exercise of the purchase option,
in which case right of use assets are depreciated over the useful life of the underlying asset. Depreciation expense is recorded in the Consolidated
Statement of Income. Right-of-use assets are included under property, plant and equipment (Note 5).
Lease liabilities are initially measured at the present value of lease payments. Lease payments include fixed lease payments, variable lease
payments that depend on an index or rate, amounts payable for guaranteed residual values and payments to be made under extension or
purchase or termination options, where applicable. The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate
cannot be readily determined, which is generally the case, the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate is used, being the rate that the individual
lessee would have to pay to borrow the funds necessary to obtain an asset of similar value to the right-of-use asset in a similar economic
environment with similar terms, security and conditions. Subsequent to initial recognition, the lease liabilities are measured by increasing the
carrying amount to reflect interest on the lease liability, reducing the carrying amount to reflect the lease payments made and adjusted for
remeasurement to reflect any reassessments or lease modifications. Lease liabilities are included under borrowings (Note 19). Lease payments
are allocated between the liability and finance costs. Finance costs are recorded as an expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income over
the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Saudi Aramco has elected not to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term and low-value leases. Lease payments under
short-term and low-value leases are recorded as an expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Significant accounting judgments and estimates
In determining the lease term, management considers all facts and circumstances that create an economic incentive to exercise an extension
option, or not exercise a termination option. Extension options are only included in the lease term if the lease is reasonably certain to not be
terminated or to be extended. The assessment is reviewed if a significant event or a significant change in circumstances occurs which affects
this assessment and is within the control of the lessee.
Accounting policies applied until December 31, 2018
Agreements under which Saudi Aramco made payments to third parties in return for the right to use an asset for a period of time were
accounted for as leases. Leases that transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to Saudi Aramco were recorded at
commencement as finance leases. Such leases were capitalized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at the lower of the fair value of the leased
asset or the present value of the minimum lease payments. The interest element of leases was recorded in net income using the effective interest
method over the term of the lease. Contingent rentals were recognized as an expense in the periods in which they were incurred. All other leases
were recorded as operating leases and the associated costs were recorded in net income on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Where Saudi Aramco was the lessor in a finance lease, the present value of the lease payments was recognized as a receivable. The interest
element of the lease receivable was recognized in net income using the effective interest method.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 150]
148 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
(j) Investments and other financial assets
(i) Classification
Management determines the classification of its financial assets based on the business model for managing the financial assets and the
contractual terms of the cash flows. Saudi Aramco’s financial assets are classified in the following measurement categories:
• those to be measured subsequently at fair value (either through other comprehensive income or through profit or loss), and
• those to be measured at amortized cost.
For financial assets measured at fair value, gains and losses are recorded either in net income or other comprehensive income. For investments
in debt securities, this depends on the business model in which the investment is held. For investments in equity instruments that are not held
for trading, this depends on whether Saudi Aramco has made an irrevocable election at the time of initial recognition, due to the strategic nature
of these investments, to account for such equity investments at fair value through other comprehensive income. Saudi Aramco reclassifies debt
securities when and only when its business model for managing those assets changes. Certain revenue contracts provide for provisional pricing
at the time of shipment with the final pricing based on an average market price for a particular future period. Such trade receivables are
measured at fair value because the contractual cash flows are not solely payments of principal and interest. All other trade receivables meet
the criteria for amortized cost measurement under IFRS 9.
(ii) Recognition and derecognition
Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognized on the trade-date, which is the date on which Saudi Aramco commits to purchase
or sell the asset. Financial assets are derecognized when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets have expired or have been
transferred and Saudi Aramco has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
(iii) Measurement
At initial recognition, Saudi Aramco measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit
or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset. Transaction costs of financial assets carried at fair
value through profit or loss are expensed as a component of net income. Saudi Aramco subsequently measures all equity investments at fair value.
Equity investments:
Where Saudi Aramco has elected to present fair value gains and losses on equity investments in other comprehensive income, there is no
subsequent reclassification of fair value gains and losses to net income following the derecognition of the investment. Dividends from such
investments continue to be recognized as a component of net income when Saudi Aramco’s right to receive payments is established. Changes
in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are recognized as a component of net income.
Debt securities:
Subsequent measurement of debt securities depends on Saudi Aramco’s business model for managing the asset and the cash flow characteristics
of the asset. Debt securities are classified into the following three measurement categories:
1. Amortized cost:
Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest are
measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. A gain or loss on a debt investment that is subsequently measured at amortized
cost and is not part of a hedging relationship is recognized as a component of net income when the asset is derecognized or impaired. Interest
income from these financial assets is included in finance income using the effective interest rate method.
2. Fair value through other comprehensive income (“FVOCI”):
Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and for selling the financial assets, where the assets’ cash flows represent solely
payments of principal and interest, are measured at FVOCI. Movements in the carrying amount are taken through other comprehensive income,
except for impairment gains or losses, interest income and foreign exchange gains and losses which are recognized as a component of net
income. When the financial asset is derecognized, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognized in other comprehensive income is reclassified
from equity to net income. Interest income from these financial assets is included in finance income using the effective interest rate method.
3. Fair value through profit or loss (“FVPL”):
Assets that do not meet the criteria for amortized cost or FVOCI are measured at FVPL. A gain or loss on a debt investment that is subsequently
measured at FVPL and is not part of a hedging relationship is recognized as a component of net income in the period in which it arises. Financial
assets at FVPL are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the asset within 12 months from the end of the
reporting period, in which case the asset is included in current assets.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
[Page 151]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 149
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
Other financial assets:
Other financial assets are classified into the following categories:
1. Amortized cost:
Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest are
measured at amortized cost. A gain or loss on a financial asset that is subsequently measured at amortized cost and is not part of a hedging
relationship is recognized as a component of net income when the asset is derecognized or impaired. Interest income from these financial assets
is included in finance income using the effective interest rate.
Financial assets at amortized cost comprise cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, other assets and receivables, due from the
Government and trade receivables other than those subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss.
2. Fair value through profit or loss:
Trade receivables related to contracts with provisional pricing arrangements are subsequently measured at FVPL.
(iv) Impairment
Saudi Aramco assesses on a forward-looking basis the expected credit losses associated with debt securities carried at amortized cost and FVOCI.
The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk.
For trade receivables, Saudi Aramco applies the simplified approach permitted by IFRS 9, which requires expected lifetime losses to be recognized
from initial recognition of the receivables.
(k) Derivative instruments and hedging activities
Saudi Aramco’s use of derivative instruments does not have a material effect on its financial position or results of operations.
(i) Derivative instruments classified as held for trading
Saudi Aramco uses commodity swap derivative financial instruments to manage exposure to price fluctuations which arise on purchase and sale
transactions for physical deliveries of various refined products. The swaps are initially recognized, and subsequently remeasured at fair value
and recorded as an asset, when the fair value is positive, or liability, when the fair value is negative, under trade receivables or trade and other
payables in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, respectively.
The fair value of the swap is determined in accordance with Saudi Aramco’s derivative valuation policy by reference to the traded price of that
instrument on the relevant exchange or over-the-counter markets at the Consolidated Balance Sheet date. The gain or loss from the changes
in the fair value of the swap from its value at inception is recognized in net income.
(ii) Derivative instruments designated as hedges
Saudi Aramco uses interest rate swaps and currency forward contracts to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign
exchange rates. These derivative financial instruments, designated as either fair value or cash flow hedges, are purchased from counterparties
of high credit standing and are initially recognized, and subsequently remeasured, at fair value.
At the inception of the hedging transaction, Saudi Aramco documents the economic relationship between the hedging instrument and the
hedged item, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking the hedge transaction.
The fair value of a derivative financial instrument used for hedging purposes is classified as a current asset or liability when the remaining
maturity of the derivative is less than 12 months; otherwise, it is classified as a non-current asset or liability.
1) Fair value hedges
A fair value hedge is a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or firm commitment and comprises currency forward contracts.
The gain or loss from the changes in the fair value of the currency forward contracts is recognized in net income, together with changes in the
fair value of the hedged item.
2) Cash flow hedges
A cash flow hedge is a hedge of a particular risk associated with all or a component of a recognized asset or liability or a highly probable forecast
transaction, and could affect profit or loss. Any gain or loss relating to the effective portion of changes in the fair value of interest rate swap
contracts is recognized in other comprehensive income, with the ineffective portion recognized immediately in net income.
Gains and losses deferred through other comprehensive income are reclassified to net income at the time the hedged item affects net income.
However, when a hedged item is a forecast transaction resulting in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the gains and
losses deferred through other comprehensive income, if any, are included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires, any cumulative gain or loss deferred through other comprehensive income will remain until the forecast
transaction is recognized. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss deferred through other
comprehensive income is immediately reclassified to net income.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 152]
150 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
(l) Income tax
Income tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax expense. Income tax expense is recognized in net income, except to
the extent that it relates to items recognized in other comprehensive income. In this case, the related income tax is also recognized in other
comprehensive income.
Current income tax expense is calculated primarily on the basis of the Tax Law. In addition, income tax expense results from taxable income
generated by foreign affiliates.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method at tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period
and expected to apply when the related deferred income tax is realized or settled on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of
assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. In estimating such tax consequences, consideration
is given to expected future events. Deferred income tax is not provided on initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than
a business combination that, at the time of the transaction, does not affect either the accounting profit or the taxable profit.
Deferred income tax assets are recognized where future recovery is probable. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there
is a legally enforceable right to offset current income tax assets against current income tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate
to the same fiscal authority. Deferred income tax is not provided for taxes on possible future distributions of retained earnings of subsidiaries
where the timing of the distribution can be controlled and it is probable that the retained earnings will be substantially reinvested by the entities.
Significant accounting judgments and estimates
Saudi Aramco establishes provisions, based on reasonable estimates, for potential claims by the tax authorities of the respective countries in
which it operates. The amount of such provisions is based on various factors, such as different interpretations of tax regulations by the taxable
entity and the responsible tax authority and the outcome of previous negotiations. This requires the application of judgment as to the ultimate
outcome, which can change over time depending on facts and circumstances. A change in estimate of the likelihood of a future outflow and/or
in the expected amount to be settled would be recognized in net income in the period in which the change occurs. Deferred income tax assets
are recognized only to the extent it is considered probable that those assets are recoverable. This includes an assessment of when those assets
are likely to reverse, and a judgment as to whether or not there will be sufficient taxable income available to offset the assets when they do
reverse. This requires assumptions regarding future profitability. To the extent assumptions regarding future profitability change, there can be
an increase or decrease in the amounts recognized in respect of deferred income tax assets as well as in the amounts recognized in net income
in the period in which the change occurs.
Detailed taxation information, including current expense and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, is presented in Note 8.
(m) Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value. Cost comprises all expenses to bring the inventory to their present
location and condition and, for hydrocarbon inventories, is determined using the first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) method. For materials and supplies
inventories, cost is determined using the weighted average method less an allowance for disposal of obsolete and/or surplus materials and
supplies. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
(n) Due from the Government
The Government compensates the Company through price equalization (Note 2(y)) and for the past due trade receivables of specified
Government and semi-Government agencies to whom the Company supplies specified products and services.
Revenue on sales to these specified Government and semi-Government agencies is recognized upon the satisfaction of performance obligations,
which occurs when control transfers to these customers. Control of the products is determined to be transferred when the title of products
passes, which typically takes place when product is physically transferred to these customers. Once receivables from these customers are past
due, these trade receivables are reclassified as a due from the Government current receivable.
Implementing regulations issued by the Government allow the Company to offset any amounts due from the Government against payment
of taxes, and in the event of insufficiency of tax balances, offsetting may extend against any other amounts due and payable by the Company
to the Government. Balances due from the Government at December 31 represent amounts to be settled through offset against tax payments.
(o) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand and in banks together with all highly liquid investments purchased with original maturities
of three months or less.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
[Page 153]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 151
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
(p) Treasury shares
Treasury shares are recognized as a deduction from equity at the amount of consideration paid by the Company for their acquisition, including
any directly attributable transaction costs incurred.
(q) Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities at FVPL or as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost, as appropriate. Management
determines the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
Saudi Aramco’s financial liabilities are:
(i) Financial liabilities at FVPL
Derivative financial liabilities are categorized as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges (Note 2(k)). Derivative financial liabilities
held for trading are included in current liabilities under trade and other payables with gains or losses recognized in net income.
(ii) Financial liabilities at amortized cost
Financial liabilities other than financial liabilities at FVPL are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost net of transaction costs.
Such financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method.
Discounting is omitted when the effect is immaterial. Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost are included in current liabilities, except
for maturities greater than 12 months after the end of the reporting period, which are classified as non-current liabilities.
Financial liabilities at amortized cost include trade and other payables and borrowings. Financial liabilities are disclosed separately from financial
assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheet unless there is a right to offset.
(r) Borrowing costs
Any difference between borrowing proceeds and the redemption value is recognized as finance costs in the Consolidated Statement of Income
over the term of the borrowing using the effective interest method.
Borrowing costs are expensed as incurred except for those costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying
asset which are capitalized as part of the cost of that asset until the asset is complete for its intended use or sale. Qualifying assets are assets that
necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for intended use or sale.
(s) Post-employment benefit plans
(i) Pension plans
Funded pension plans are non-contributory plans for the majority of employees and are generally funded by payments by Saudi Aramco to
independent trusts or other separate entities. Assets held by the independent trusts and other separate entities are held at their fair value.
Valuations of both funded and unfunded plans are performed annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The
valuations take into account employees’ years of service, average or final pensionable remuneration, and are discounted to their present value
using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related defined benefit obligation.
The amount recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit
obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The periodic pension cost included in operating costs in the
Consolidated Statement of Income in respect of defined benefit pension plans primarily represents the increase in the actuarially assessed present
value of the obligation for pension benefits based on employee service during the year and the net interest on the net defined benefit liability
or asset. Net interest is calculated by multiplying the defined benefit liability and plan assets by the discount rate applied to each plan at the
beginning of each year, amended for changes to the defined benefit liability and plan assets as a result of benefit payments or contributions.
Past service costs, representing plan amendments, are recognized immediately as pension costs in the Consolidated Statement of Income,
regardless of the remaining vesting period.
Remeasurements representing actuarial gains and losses, arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions, and the
actual returns on plan assets excluding interest on plan assets, are credited or charged to equity, net of tax, through other comprehensive income.
For defined contribution plans where benefits depend solely on the amount contributed to or due to the employee’s account and the returns
earned from the investment of those contributions, plan cost is the amount contributed by or due from Saudi Aramco and is recognized as an
expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 154]
152 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
(ii) Other post-employment benefits
Saudi Aramco provides certain post-employment healthcare, life insurance and other benefits to retirees and certain former employees.
The entitlement is usually based on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period.
To the extent these plans are not fully funded, a liability is recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Valuations of benefits are performed
by independent actuaries.
Such plans follow the same accounting methodology as used for defined benefit pension plans.
Significant accounting judgments and estimates
The costs of defined benefit pension plans and post-employment medical benefits are determined using actuarial valuations. The actuarial
valuation involves making assumptions, which are reviewed annually. Key assumptions include discount rates, future salary increases, future
healthcare costs, mortality rates and future pension increases. Due to the complexity of the valuation, the underlying assumptions and the long
term nature of these plans, such estimates are subject to significant uncertainty. Information about amounts reported in respect of defined
benefit plans, assumptions applicable to the plans and their sensitivity to changes are presented in Note 20.
(t) Share-based compensation
The cost of an equity-settled award granted to employees is measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instrument on the date the
award is granted. This cost is recognized as an employee benefit expense in the income statement with a corresponding increase in equity.
The cost of a cash-settled award granted to employees is measured by reference to the fair value of the liability at each balance sheet date until
settlement. This cost is recognized as an employee benefit expense in the income statement with the corresponding recognition of a liability on
the balance sheet.
The cost of both the equity-settled and cash-settled awards is recognized over the vesting period, which is the period over which the employees
render the required service for the award and any non-market performance condition attached to the award is required to be met. Additionally,
for a cash-settled award, any changes in the fair value of the liability between the vesting date and the date of its settlement are also recognized
in the income statement within employee benefit expense.
In determining the fair value of an equity-settled or cash-settled award, an appropriate valuation method is applied. Service and non-market
performance conditions are not taken into account in determining the fair value of the award, but during the vesting period the likelihood of
the conditions being met is assessed as part of the Company’s best estimate of the number of awards that are expected to vest. Any market
performance conditions and non-vesting conditions are taken into account in determining the award’s fair value.
(u) Provisions and contingencies
Provisions are liabilities where the timing or amount of future expenditures is uncertain. Provisions are recognized when Saudi Aramco has
a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of economic resources will be required to
settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are recorded at the best estimate of the present value of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the end of the reporting
period. Amounts are discounted, unless the effect of discounting is immaterial, using an appropriate discount rate that reflects the current
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision due to the passage of time
is recognized as interest expense within finance costs in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Saudi Aramco records a provision and a corresponding asset for decommissioning activities in Upstream operations for well plugging and
abandonment activities. The obligation for a well is recognized when it is drilled. Decommissioning provisions associated with Downstream
facilities are generally not recognized, as the potential obligations cannot be measured, given their indeterminate settlement dates. The liability
for decommissioning obligations will be recognized in the period when sufficient information becomes available to estimate a range of potential
settlement dates. Decommissioning costs are provided for at the present value of expected costs to settle the obligation using estimated cash
flows. The value of the obligation is added to the carrying amount of the related asset and amortized over the useful life of the asset. The
increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognized as finance costs in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Changes in future
cash flow estimates resulting from revisions to the estimated timing or amount of undiscounted cash flows are recognized as a change in
provision and related asset.
A contingent liability is disclosed where the existence of an obligation will only be confirmed by future events or where the amount of the
obligation cannot be measured with reasonable reliability. Contingent assets are not recognized, but are disclosed where the inflow of economic
benefits is probable.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
[Page 155]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 153
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
Significant accounting judgments and estimates
Most of Saudi Aramco’s well plugging and abandonment activities are many years into the future with technology and costs constantly
changing. Estimates of the amounts of a provision are recognized based on current legal and constructive requirements and costs associated to
abandon using existing technologies. Actual costs are uncertain and estimates can vary as a result of changes in the scope of the project and/or
relevant laws and regulation. The estimated timing of decommissioning may change due to certain factors, such as reserve life, a decision to
terminate operations, or changes in legislation. Changes to estimates related to future expected costs, discount rates and timing may have a
material impact on the amounts presented. As a result, significant judgment is applied in the initial recognition and subsequent adjustment of
the provision and the capitalized cost associated with decommissioning, plugging and abandonment obligations. Any subsequent adjustments
to the provision are made prospectively. Detail on the particular assumptions applied when making certain non-current provisions is included
in Note 21.
(v) Foreign currency translation
The USD is the functional currency of the Company and substantially all of its subsidiaries. Foreign currency transactions are translated into the
functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Any foreign currency monetary assets or liabilities are
translated at each reporting date using the prevailing reporting date exchange rate. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the
settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognized
as a component of net income. Non-monetary assets and liabilities, other than those measured at fair value, are translated using the exchange
rate at the date of the transactions.
Significant accounting judgments and estimates
The Company has determined that USD is the functional currency as a substantial amount of its products are traded in USD in international
markets. However, a substantial amount of costs of the Company are denominated in SAR which has been exchanged at a fixed rate to
USD since 1986. A change in the fixed exchange rate could impact the recorded revenue, expenses, assets and liabilities of the Company.
(w) Presentation currency
The consolidated financial statements are presented in SAR. The financial position and results of the operations of the Company, subsidiaries,
joint arrangements and associates that have a functional currency which is different from the presentation currency are translated at reporting
date exchange rates and the average exchange rates that approximate the cumulative effect of rates prevailing at the transaction dates,
respectively. All resulting exchange differences are recognized through other comprehensive income. On disposal of a foreign operation,
the component of other comprehensive income relating to the particular foreign operation is recognized in net income.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation and any fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities arising
on the acquisition are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the spot rate of exchange at the reporting date.
Translations from SAR to USD presented as supplementary information in the Consolidated Statement of Income, Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, and Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
at December 31, 2019 and 2018, are for convenience and were calculated at the rate of USD 1.00 = SAR 3.75 representing the exchange rate
at the balance sheet dates.
(x) Revenue recognition and sales prices
Revenue from sales of crude oil and related products is recognized upon the satisfaction of performance obligations, which occurs when control
transfers to the customer. Control of the products is determined to be transferred to the customer when the title of crude oil and related
products passes to the customer, which typically takes place when product is physically transferred into a vessel, pipe or other delivery mechanism.
Revenue contracts for crude and certain related products provide for provisional pricing at the time of shipment, with final pricing based on the
average market price for a particular future period. Revenue on these contracts is recorded based on the estimate of the final price at the time
control is transferred to the customer. Any difference between the estimate and the final price is recorded as a change in fair value of the related
receivable, as part of revenue, in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Where applicable the transaction price is allocated to the individual
performance obligations of a contract based on their relative stand-alone selling prices.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 156]
154 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
(y) Other income related to sales
The Government compensates the Company through price equalization for revenue directly foregone as a result of the Company’s compliance
with local regulations governing domestic sales and distribution of certain liquid products (Note 2(a)(ii)). This compensation reflected in these
consolidated financial statements is calculated by the Company as the difference between the product’s equalization price and the corresponding
domestic regulated price, net of Government fees, in accordance with the implementing regulations issued by the Government in 2017.
This compensation is recorded as other income related to sales, that is taxable, when the Company has satisfied its performance obligations
through transfer of the title to the buyer, which occurs when product is physically transferred. The compensation due from the Government
is characterized as a due from the Government (Note 2(n)) current receivable and is recognized initially at fair value and subsequently measured
at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method less impairment losses, if any.
The implementing regulations allow the Company to offset any amounts due from the Government against payment of taxes, and in the
event of insufficiency of tax balances, offsetting may extend against any other amounts due and payable by the Company to the Government.
(z) Production royalties
Royalties to the Government are calculated based on a progressive scheme applied to crude oil and condensate production. An effective royalty
rate is applied to production based on the Company’s official selling prices. The effective royalty rate is determined based on a baseline marginal
rate of 20% applied to prices up to $70 per barrel, increasing to 40% applied to prices above $70 per barrel and 50% applied to prices above
$100 per barrel (Note 2(a)(i)). All such royalties are accounted for as an expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income and are deductible
costs for Government income tax calculations.
(aa) Research and development
Development costs that are expected to generate probable future economic benefits are capitalized as intangible assets and amortized over
their estimated useful life. All other research and development costs are recognized in net income as incurred.
(bb) Dividends
Provision is made for the amount of any dividend declared, being appropriately authorized and no longer at the discretion of the Company,
on or before the end of the reporting period but not distributed at the end of the reporting period.
(cc) Earnings per share
(i) Basic earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing:
• the net income attributable to the ordinary shareholder of the Company; and
• by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the reporting period, adjusted for bonus elements in ordinary shares
issued during the period and excluding treasury shares.
(ii) Diluted earnings per share
Diluted earnings per share adjusts the figures used in the determination of basic earnings per share to take into account:
• the after income tax effect of interest and other financing costs associated with dilutive potential ordinary shares; and
• the weighted average number of additional ordinary shares that would have been outstanding assuming the conversion of all dilutive
potential ordinary shares.
(dd) Reclassifications
Certain comparative amounts in the Consolidated Statement of Income and Consolidated Balance Sheet for the year ended December 31, 2018
have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. Such reclassifications did not impact the previously reported net income.
These include certain sales of crude oil and related purchases of refined products in the amount of SAR 12,239, which are presented in the
Consolidated Statement of Income as revenue and purchases reflecting current trading arrangements.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
[Page 157]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 155
3. Financial risk management
Saudi Aramco operates internationally but has limited exposure to financial risks. Financial risks include market risk (including foreign currency
exchange risk, price risk, and interest rate risk), credit risk, and liquidity risk. Financial risk management is carried out primarily by a central
treasury department. The adequacy of financial risk management policies is regularly reviewed with consideration of current activities and market
conditions on a consolidated basis. Saudi Aramco uses derivative financial instruments with limited complexity to manage certain risk exposures
and does not enter into or trade financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments, for speculative purposes.
(a) Financial risk factors
(i) Market risk
1) Foreign currency exchange risk – The risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate due to changes
in foreign currency exchange rates.
Saudi Aramco operates internationally but has limited exposure to financial risk due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates as most of the
significant transactions are denominated in its functional currency (Note 2(v)), are linked to its functional currency or are hedged. Saudi Aramco’s
limited foreign currency exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions or recognized assets or liabilities denominated in a currency
that is not Saudi Aramco’s functional currency. In addition, a substantial amount of costs of Saudi Aramco are denominated in SAR which has
been at a fixed rate to USD since 1986. A change in the fixed exchange rate would result in foreign exchange differences being recognized in
the consolidated financial statements.
Saudi Aramco engages in hedging activities through the use of currency forward contracts to manage its exchange exposure from significant
transactions denominated in a foreign currency. The hedge ratio considers variability in potential outcomes, spot rates, as well as interest rates,
and on a transaction by transaction basis can cover up to 100% of the exposure at inception.
The notional amounts of outstanding currency forward contracts designated as hedging instruments are included in Note 28.
2) Price risk – The risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
Price risk primarily stems from investments in securities and commodity trading.
a) Investments in securities
Saudi Aramco has limited exposure to price risk with such risk arising, primarily, from investments in securities carried at fair value.
Saudi Aramco regularly reviews its positions in investments in securities considering current and expected future economic trends.
At December 31, 2019 and 2018, a change in fair value due to a movement of 5% in the price of listed equity securities would result in a change
in other comprehensive income before income taxes of SAR 412 and SAR 366, respectively.
At December 31, 2019 and 2018, a change in fair value due to a movement of 5% in the unit price of mutual and hedge funds would result
in a change in income before income taxes of SAR 240 and SAR 209, respectively.
b) Commodity swaps
Saudi Aramco trades refined, natural gas liquid, and bulk petrochemical products and uses commodity swaps as a means of managing price and
timing of risks arising from this trading. In effecting these transactions, Saudi Aramco operates within policies and procedures designed to ensure
that risks, including those related to the default of counterparties, are managed within authorized limits. The notional amounts of outstanding
commodity swap contracts are included in Note 28.
3) Interest rate risk – The risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market
interest rates.
Saudi Aramco is exposed to interest rate risk from changes in interest rates that affect the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments,
principally borrowings, issued at variable and fixed rates. Borrowings issued at variable rates expose Saudi Aramco to cash flow interest rate risk
which is partially offset by short-term time deposits and debt securities held at variable rates. Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose Saudi
Aramco to fair value interest rate risk. Saudi Aramco may enter into interest rate swap agreements as part of its overall strategy to manage
the interest rate risk on its debt.
At December 31, 2019 and 2018, a change of 1% in market interest rates, with all other variables held constant, would result in a net change
of SAR 435 and SAR 1,125, respectively, in Saudi Aramco’s income before income taxes as a result of the effect of higher or lower market
interest rates.
The notional amounts of interest rate swap contracts are included in Note 28.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 158]
156 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
3. Financial risk management continued
(ii) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that counterparties might not fulfill their contractual payment obligations towards an entity.
Saudi Aramco is exposed to credit risk related to its counterparties not performing or honoring their obligations which would result in financial
loss. Credit risk arises from credit exposures on trade receivables as well as from cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, debt
securities classified as FVOCI, and derivatives with financial institutions. The maximum exposure to credit risk is the carrying value of these assets.
Saudi Aramco’s trade receivables arise from a global customer base which limits geographic concentrations of credit risk. Moreover, a credit risk
policy is in place to ensure credit limits are extended to creditworthy counterparties and risk mitigation measures are defined and implemented
accordingly. Saudi Aramco performs ongoing evaluations of its counterparty’s financial standing and takes additional measures to mitigate credit
risk when considered appropriate by means of letter of credits, bank guarantees or parent company guarantees.
In addition, the credit policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any individual counterparty based on their credit rating as well as other
factors. Moreover, Saudi Aramco’s investment policy limits exposure to credit risk arising from investment activities. The policy requires that
cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments be invested with a diversified group of financial institutions with acceptable credit ratings.
Saudi Aramco ensures that each counterparty is of an acceptable credit quality by relying on quantitative and qualitative measures compiled from
internal and third party rating models. At December 31, 2019, all the short-term investments were with financial institutions assigned a long-term
credit rating of “BBB” (2018: “BBB+”) or above.
Employee home loans (Note 9) and debt securities measured at FVOCI are generally considered to have low credit risk based on history of default
and thus the impairment provision recognized during the year based on the general approach allowed by IFRS 9, where applicable, was substantially
limited to 12-month expected losses.
Saudi Aramco applies the simplified approach allowed by IFRS 9 in providing for expected credit losses for trade receivables. The simplified
approach uses the lifetime expected loss provision for all trade receivables. Such credit losses have historically been nominal and the loss
allowance for trade receivables (Note 12) is not material.
(iii) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that an entity will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with financial liabilities.
Saudi Aramco’s liquidity risk management includes maintaining sufficient cash and cash equivalents and ensuring the availability of incremental
funding through credit facilities (Note 19). Management also monitors and forecasts Saudi Aramco’s liquidity requirements based on current
and non-current expected cash flows.
Saudi Aramco invests surplus cash in current accounts, time deposits, money market deposits, government repurchase agreements and
marketable securities, choosing instruments with appropriate maturities or sufficient liquidity to meet forecasted cash flow requirements.
Saudi Aramco prioritizes security and liquidity over yield.
Note 19 analyzes Saudi Aramco’s borrowings into relevant maturity groupings based on the balances associated with each contractual maturity
date at the end of the reporting period.
(b) Capital structure management
Saudi Aramco seeks to maintain a prudent capital structure, comprised of borrowings and shareholders’ equity, to support its capital investment
plans and maintain a sustainable, growing dividend profile. Maintaining sufficient financial flexibility is considered strategically important to
mitigate industry cyclicality while also enabling the pursuit of organic and inorganic investment opportunities. Borrowings or dividends will result
in an adjustment to Saudi Aramco’s capital structure.
(c) Casualty loss risk retention
Saudi Aramco’s casualty loss risk strategy includes a risk retention and insurance program, including providing coverage to certain joint arrangements
and associates limited to Saudi Aramco’s percentage interest in the relevant entity. Current maximum risk retention is SAR 2,490 per loss event
(2018: SAR 2,118) and various insurance limits apply, of which the risk retention forms a part. Should a credible loss event occur, the maximum
insurance limit above retention is SAR 4,875 (2018: SAR 4,875) per event dependent on the circumstances.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
[Page 159]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 157
3. Financial risk management continued
(d) Fair value estimation
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants
at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability
takes place either in the principal market for the asset or liability or, in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for
the asset or liability. Management believes that the fair values of Saudi Aramco’s financial assets and liabilities that are measured and recognized
at amortized cost are not materially different from their carrying amounts at the end of the reporting period.
Saudi Aramco measures financial instruments such as derivatives, equity investments classified as FVPL, and equity investments and debt
securities classified as FVOCI, at fair value at each balance sheet date. Saudi Aramco uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the
circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximizing the use of relevant observable inputs and minimizing
the use of unobservable inputs. All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorized
within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole:
• Level 1 – Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
• Level 2 – V aluation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly
observable
• Level 3 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable
The following table presents Saudi Aramco’s assets and liabilities measured and recognized at fair value at the years ended December 31, 2019
and 2018, based on the prescribed fair value measurement hierarchy on a recurring basis. Saudi Aramco did not measure any financial assets or
financial liabilities at fair value on a non-recurring basis at December 31, 2019 and 2018.
Assets Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
2019
Investments in securities:
Equity securities at FVOCI 8,246 – 1,244 9,490
Debt securities at FVOCI 1 4,563 – 4,564
Equity securities at FVPL – 1,265 4,918 6,183
Trade receivables related to contracts with provisional pricing arrangements – – 75,723 75,723
8,247 5,828 81,885 95,960
Other assets and receivables:
Interest rate swaps – 13 – 13
Commodity swaps – 288 – 288
Currency forward contracts – 30 – 30
– 331 – 331
Total assets 8,247 6,159 81,885 96,291
2018
Investments in securities:
Equity securities at FVOCI 7,324 – 1,293 8,617
Debt securities at FVOCI 19 3,908 – 3,927
Equity securities at FVPL – 991 4,237 5,228
Trade receivables related to contracts with provisional pricing arrangements – – 73,509 73,509
7,343 4,899 79,039 91,281
Other assets and receivables:
Interest rate swaps – 191 – 191
Commodity swaps 184 2,393 – 2,577
Currency forward contracts – 33 – 33
184 2,617 – 2,801
Total assets 7,527 7,516 79,039 94,082
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
8,246 | – | 1,244 |  | 9,490
1 | 4,563 | – |  | 4,564
– | 1,265 | 4,918 |  | 6,183
– | – | 75,723 |  | 75,723
8,247 | 5,828 | 81,885 |  | 95,960
|  |  |  |
– | 13 | – |  | 13
– | 288 | – |  | 288
– | 30 | – |  | 30
– | 331 | – |  | 331
8,247 | 6,159 | 81,885 |  | 96,291
[Page 160]
158 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
3. Financial risk management continued
Liabilities Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
2019
Trade and other payables:
Interest rate swaps – 338 – 338
Commodity swaps – 521 – 521
Currency forward contracts – 109 – 109
– 968 – 968
2018
Trade and other payables:
Interest rate swaps – 71 – 71
Commodity swaps – 1,069 – 1,069
Currency forward contracts – 180 – 180
– 1,320 – 1,320
The valuation techniques for Saudi Aramco’s investments in securities are described in Note 10. The changes in Level 3 investments in securities
and other current assets for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows:
2019 2018
January 1 5,530 5,283
Net additions 286 389
Net movement in unrealized fair value gain/(loss) 346 (161)
Acquisition – 11
Realized gain – 8
December 31 6,162 5,530
The movement in trade receivables related to contracts with provisional pricing arrangements mainly relates to sales transactions, net of settlements,
made during the period, resulting from contracts with customers (Note 12). Unrealized fair value movements on these trade receivables are
not significant.
4. Operating segments
Saudi Aramco is engaged in prospecting, exploring, drilling, extracting, processing, manufacturing, refining and marketing hydrocarbon
substances within the Kingdom and has interests in refining, petrochemical, distribution, marketing and storage facilities outside the Kingdom.
Saudi Aramco’s operating segments are established on the basis of those components that are evaluated regularly by the CEO, considered to be
the Chief Operating Decision Maker. The Chief Operating Decision Maker monitors the operating results of Saudi Aramco’s operating segments
separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment. Segment performance is evaluated based
on revenues, costs and a broad range of key performance indicators in addition to segment profitability.
For management purposes, Saudi Aramco is organized into business units based on the main types of activities. At December 31, 2019, Saudi
Aramco had two reportable segments, Upstream and Downstream, with all other supporting functions aggregated into a Corporate segment.
Upstream activities include crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids exploration, field development and production. Downstream activities
include the refining, logistics, power generation, and marketing of crude oil, petroleum and petrochemical products and related services to
international and domestic customers. Corporate activities include primarily supporting services including Human Resources, Finance and IT,
not allocated to Upstream and Downstream. Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to
transactions with third parties.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
– | 338 | – |  | 338
– | 521 | – |  | 521
– | 109 | – |  | 109
– | 968 | – |  | 968
|
5,530 |
286 |
346 |
– |
– |
6,162 |
[Page 161]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 159
4. Operating segments continued
The accounting policies used by Saudi Aramco in reporting segments internally are the same as those contained in Note 2 of the consolidated
financial statements.
Information by segments is as follows:
Upstream Downstream Corporate Eliminations Consolidated
2019
External revenue 709,250 395,099 1,347 – 1,105,696
Other income related to sales 34,446 96,643 – – 131,089
Inter-segment revenue 226,699 35,677 292 (262,668) –
Share of results of joint ventures and associates (3) (9,371) (81) – (9,455)
Depreciation and amortization (30,855) (14,350) (5,061) – (50,266)
Dividends and other income – 1,800 17 – 1,817
Earnings (losses) before interest and income taxes 689,894 (3,478) (13,098) (6,085) 667,233
Finance income 5,534
Finance costs (6,026)
Income before income taxes 666,741
Capital expenditures – cash basis 93,927 26,696 2,259 – 122,882
2018
External revenue 788,472 404,575 1,329 – 1,194,376
Other income related to sales 37,189 115,452 – – 152,641
Inter-segment revenue 276,500 32,798 256 (309,554) –
Share of results of joint ventures and associates (1) (1,274) (140) – (1,415)
Depreciation and amortization (27,495) (11,941) (1,898) – (41,334)
Dividends and other income – 1,024 1 – 1,025
Earnings (losses) before interest and income taxes 796,321 12,638 (12,927) 1,983 798,015
Finance income 2,840
Finance costs (2,959)
Income before income taxes 797,896
Capital expenditures – cash basis 96,768 32,677 2,321 – 131,766
Information by geographical area is as follows:
Out of
In-Kingdom Kingdom Total
2019
External revenue 871,451 234,245 1,105,696
Property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, investments in joint ventures and associates 900,938 130,936 1,031,874
2018
External revenue 991,769 202,607 1,194,376
Property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, investments in joint ventures and associates 814,997 108,305 923,302
Sales to external customers by region are based on the location of the Saudi Aramco entity, which made the sale. Out of Kingdom revenue
includes sales of SAR 119,325 originating from the United States of America (“USA”) (2018: SAR 118,762).
Property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and investment in joint ventures and associates by region are based on the location of the
Saudi Aramco entity holding the assets.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
709,250 | 395,099 | 1,347 | – |  | 1,105,696
34,446 | 96,643 | – | – |  | 131,089
226,699 | 35,677 | 292 | (262,668) |  | –
(3) | (9,371) | (81) | – |  | (9,455)
(30,855) | (14,350) | (5,061) | – |  | (50,266)
– | 1,800 | 17 | – |  | 1,817
689,894 | (3,478) | (13,098) | (6,085) |  | 667,233
|  |  |  |  | 5,534
|  |  |  |  | (6,026)
|  |  |  |  | 666,741
|  |  |  |  |
93,927 | 26,696 | 2,259 | – |  | 122,882
|  |  |
|  |  |
871,451 | 234,245 |  | 1,105,696
900,938 | 130,936 |  | 1,031,874
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
[Page 162]
160 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
5. Property, plant and equipment
Refinery and
Crude oil petrochemical Gas and NGL General Construction-
facilities facilities facilities service plant in-progress Total
Cost
January 1, 2019 503,281 205,233 361,141 88,482 257,607 1,415,744
Adjustment for change in accounting policy (Note 2(c)(i)) 6,337 8,005 254 11,455 – 26,051
Additions 4,929 3,545 164 2,559 110,995 122,192
Acquisitions (Note 33) – 10,395 – – 1,329 11,724
Derecognition on acquisition of joint operation
(Note 33(a)(ii)) – (5,240) – – (977) (6,217)
Construction completed 25,517 12,764 34,647 6,865 (79,793) –
Currency translation differences – (1,892) – – (98) (1,990)
Transfers and adjustments (646) 513 307 (23) 300 451
Transfer of exploration and evaluation assets – – – – 2,119 2,119
Retirements and sales (2,119) (2,274) (113) (756) – (5,262)
December 31, 2019 537,299 231,049 396,400 108,582 291,482 1,564,812
Accumulated depreciation
January 1, 2019 (253,544) (74,438) (160,220) (53,715) – (541,917)
Additions (18,729) (10,213) (13,828) (6,370) – (49,140)
Derecognition on acquisition of joint operation
(Note 33(a)(ii)) – 4,231 – – – 4,231
Currency translation differences – 659 – – – 659
Transfers and adjustments (25) (510) (354) 18 – (871)
Retirements and sales 1,193 2,238 102 707 – 4,240
December 31, 2019 (271,105) (78,033) (174,300) (59,360) – (582,798)
Property, plant and equipment – net,
December 31, 2019 266,194 153,016 222,100 49,222 291,482 982,014
Cost
January 1, 2018 468,598 172,065 329,480 78,951 206,248 1,255,342
Additions 2,107 3,006 264 9,124 119,402 133,903
Acquisitions (Note 33) – 9,019 – – 18,878 27,897
Construction completed 29,829 23,669 31,470 4,177 (89,145) –
Currency translation differences – (1,820) – (1) (469) (2,290)
Transfers and adjustments 3,454 (586) 24 (3,114) 529 307
Transfer of exploration and evaluation assets – – – – 2,164 2,164
Retirements and sales (707) (120) (97) (655) – (1,579)
December 31, 2018 503,281 205,233 361,141 88,482 257,607 1,415,744
Accumulated depreciation
January 1, 2018 (237,729) (67,323) (147,357) (51,799) – (504,208)
Additions (16,208) (8,269) (12,929) (2,935) – (40,341)
Currency translation differences – 848 – – – 848
Transfers and adjustments (164) 202 – 404 – 442
Retirements and sales 557 104 66 615 – 1,342
December 31, 2018 (253,544) (74,438) (160,220) (53,715) – (541,917)
Property, plant and equipment – net,
December 31, 2018 249,737 130,795 200,921 34,767 257,607 873,827
Additions to right-of-use assets during the year ended December 31, 2019 were SAR 9,670.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
503,281 | 205,233 | 361,141 | 88,482 | 257,607 |  | 1,415,744
6,337 | 8,005 | 254 | 11,455 | – |  | 26,051
4,929 | 3,545 | 164 | 2,559 | 110,995 |  | 122,192
– | 10,395 | – | – | 1,329 |  | 11,724
– | (5,240) | – | – | (977) |  | (6,217)
25,517 | 12,764 | 34,647 | 6,865 | (79,793) |  | –
– | (1,892) | – | – | (98) |  | (1,990)
(646) | 513 | 307 | (23) | 300 |  | 451
– | – | – | – | 2,119 |  | 2,119
(2,119) | (2,274) | (113) | (756) | – |  | (5,262)
537,299 | 231,049 | 396,400 | 108,582 | 291,482 |  | 1,564,812
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
(253,544) | (74,438) | (160,220) | (53,715) | – |  | (541,917)
(18,729) | (10,213) | (13,828) | (6,370) | – |  | (49,140)
– | 4,231 | – | – | – |  | 4,231
– | 659 | – | – | – |  | 659
(25) | (510) | (354) | 18 | – |  | (871)
1,193 | 2,238 | 102 | 707 | – |  | 4,240
(271,105) | (78,033) | (174,300) | (59,360) | – |  | (582,798)
266,194 | 153,016 | 222,100 | 49,222 | 291,482 |  | 982,014
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
[Page 163]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 161
5. Property, plant and equipment continued
The following table presents depreciation charges and net carrying amounts of right-of-use assets by class of assets.
Depreciation
expense for
the year Carrying
ended amount at
December 31, December 31,
2019 2019
Crude oil facilities 2,591 8,202
Refinery and petrochemical facilities 1,276 10,045
Gas and NGL facilities 178 190
General service plant 3,634 22,222
7,679 40,659
At December 31, 2018, finance lease assets with net book values of SAR 11,912 and SAR 705 were included in General service plant and Refinery
and petrochemical facilities, respectively.
6. Intangible assets
Exploration Franchise/
and Brands and customer Computer
evaluation trademarks relationships software Other Total
Cost
January 1, 2019 18,916 4,827 1,263 4,310 2,157 31,473
Additions 8,333 – – 303 65 8,701
Acquisitions (Note 33) – – 544 57 527 1,128
Derecognition on acquisition of joint operation
(Note 33(a)(ii)) – – – (84) – (84)
Currency translation differences – (84) (43) – (72) (199)
Transfers and adjustments – 48 – (114) 80 14
Transfer of exploration and evaluation assets (2,119) – – – – (2,119)
Retirements (3,217) – – (44) – (3,261)
December 31, 2019 21,913 4,791 1,764 4,428 2,757 35,653
Accumulated amortization
January 1, 2019 – (1,046) (715) (2,541) (275) (4,577)
Additions – (424) (174) (368) (160) (1,126)
Derecognition on acquisition of joint operation
(Note 33(a)(ii)) – – – 45 – 45
Currency translation differences – 22 23 – 53 98
Transfers and adjustments – – – (15) – (15)
Retirements – – – 44 – 44
December 31, 2019 – (1,448) (866) (2,835) (382) (5,531)
Intangible assets – net, December 31, 2019 21,913 3,343 898 1,593 2,375 30,122
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|  |
2,591 |  | 8,202
1,276 |  | 10,045
178 |  | 190
3,634 |  | 22,222
7,679 |  | 40,659
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
18,916 | 4,827 | 1,263 | 4,310 | 2,157 |  | 31,473
8,333 | – | – | 303 | 65 |  | 8,701
– | – | 544 | 57 | 527 |  | 1,128
– | – | – | (84) | – |  | (84)
– | (84) | (43) | – | (72) |  | (199)
– | 48 | – | (114) | 80 |  | 14
(2,119) | – | – | – | – |  | (2,119)
(3,217) | – | – | (44) | – |  | (3,261)
21,913 | 4,791 | 1,764 | 4,428 | 2,757 |  | 35,653
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
– | (1,046) | (715) | (2,541) | (275) |  | (4,577)
– | (424) | (174) | (368) | (160) |  | (1,126)
– | – | – | 45 | – |  | 45
– | 22 | 23 | – | 53 |  | 98
– | – | – | (15) | – |  | (15)
– | – | – | 44 | – |  | 44
– | (1,448) | (866) | (2,835) | (382) |  | (5,531)
21,913 | 3,343 | 898 | 1,593 | 2,375 |  | 30,122
|  |  |  |  |  |
[Page 164]
162 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
6. Intangible assets continued
Franchise/
Exploration Brands and customer Computer
and evaluation trademarks relationships software Other Total
Cost
January 1, 2018 16,008 4,931 1,318 4,101 1,589 27,947
Additions 8,023 – – 252 80 8,355
Acquisitions (Note 33(a)(iv)) – – – 189 270 459
Currency translation differences – (104) (55) – (7) (166)
Transfers and adjustments – – – (232) 225 (7)
Transfer of exploration and evaluation assets (2,164) – – – – (2,164)
Retirements (2,951) – – – – (2,951)
December 31, 2018 18,916 4,827 1,263 4,310 2,157 31,473
Accumulated amortization
January 1, 2018 – (660) (557) (2,351) (33) (3,601)
Additions – (408) (184) (261) (140) (993)
Currency translation differences – 24 26 – – 50
Transfers and adjustments – (2) – 71 (102) (33)
December 31, 2018 – (1,046) (715) (2,541) (275) (4,577)
Intangible assets – net, December 31, 2018 18,916 3,781 548 1,769 1,882 26,896
Other intangible assets include licenses and usage rights of SAR 762 (2018: SAR 882), patents and intellectual property of SAR 535 (2018: SAR 420)
and goodwill of SAR 1,078 (2018: SAR 580).
Cash used for exploration and evaluation operating activities in 2019 was SAR 4,074 (2018: SAR 4,977) and expenditures for investing activities
were SAR 8,333 (2018: SAR 8,023).
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
[Page 165]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 163
7. Investments in joint ventures and associates
Carrying Carrying
Equity amount at amount at
ownership Principal place December 31, December 31,
Company 2019/2018 of business Nature of activities 2019 2018
Sadara Chemical Company (“Sadara”)1, 2, 5 65% Saudi Arabia Petrochemical 4,483 11,660
Refining/marketing/
Hyundai Oilbank Co.,Ltd. ("Hyundai Oilbank") 17%/Nil South Korea petrochemical 4,372 –
Rabigh Refining and Petrochemical Company
(“Petro Rabigh”)2, 3 37.5% Saudi Arabia Refining/petrochemical 2,458 2,763
Fujian Refining and Petrochemical Company Limited People’s Republic
(“FREP”) 25% of China Refining/petrochemical 2,070 2,419
National Shipping Company of Saudi Arabia
(“Bahri”)3 20% Saudi Arabia Global logistics services 2,063 2,129
Power & Water Utility Company for Jubail and
Yanbu (“Marafiq”) (formerly: Jubail and
Yanbu Electricity and Water Utility Company) 24.8% Saudi Arabia Utilities 1,877 1,831
Tas'helat Marketing Company (“TMC”) 50%/Nil Saudi Arabia Marketing 433 –
The International Maritime Industries Company
(“IMIC”)1, 4 50.1% Saudi Arabia Maritime 371 425
Sinopec SenMei (Fujian) Petroleum Company Limited People’s Republic
(“SSPC”) 22.5% of China Marketing/petrochemical 392 401
Saudi Arabian Industrial Investment Company
(“Dussur”) 25% Saudi Arabia Investment 374 116
Juniper Ventures of Texas LLC (“JVTX”)1 60% USA Marketing 326 331
First Coast Energy LLP (“FCE”) 50% USA Marketing 257 263
S-Oil TOTAL Lubricants Co., Ltd. 50% South Korea Lubricants production/sale 138 147
GCC Electrical Equipment Testing Lab (“GCC Lab”) 20% Saudi Arabia Inspection 57 63
Star Enterprises LLC (“Star-Ent”) 50% USA Pension administration 36 27
Saudi Silk Road Industrial Services Company
(“SSRIS”) 20%/Nil Saudi Arabia Investment services 23 –
Arabian Rig Manufacturing Company (“ARM”) 30%/Nil Saudi Arabia Rig manufacturing 6 –
Jasara Program Management Company
(“Jasara”)6 (formerly: Pan Arabian Program
Management Company) 20%/50% Saudi Arabia Engineering services 2 4
19,738 22,579
1. Agreements and constitutive documents do not give a single shareholder control; therefore, the joint venture/associate does not qualify as a subsidiary and has not been consolidated.
2. Saudi Aramco has provided guarantees as described in Note 27.
3. Listed company.
4. O n August 27, 2019, Saudi Aramco agreed to sell 10% of its shareholding in IMIC to Korea Shipbuilding and Offshore Engineering (formerly: Hyundai Heavy Industries) subject to certain conditions
to be met within one year of the agreement.
5. D uring the year ended December 31, 2019, the management of Sadara identified certain indicators of impairment, which required a detailed impairment assessment of Sadara’s long-lived assets.
As a result of the assessment, Sadara recognized an impairment loss of SAR 9,225 for the year ended December 31, 2019 of which Saudi Aramco’s share is SAR 5,996.
6. On July 2, 2019, Saudi Aramco sold 30% of its ownership interest to the Saudi Public Investment Fund for SAR 14 (Note 32(a)).
The components of the change in the investments in joint ventures and associates for the years ended December 31 are as follows:
Joint ventures Associates
2019 2018 2019 2018
January 1 12,425 12,216 10,154 15,057
Share of results of joint ventures and associates (9,435) (2,608) (20) 1,193
Additional investment 2,860 2,531 285 368
Investments in joint ventures and associates (Note 33) 385 331 4,414 –
Derecognition of investment in ARLANXEO (Note 33(a)(iv)) – – – (4,943)
Distributions (89) (75) (689) (998)
Change in elimination of profit in inventory 27 (23) (267) (80)
Share of other comprehensive (loss) income (479) 53 (8) (443)
Other 4 – 171 –
December 31 5,698 12,425 14,040 10,154
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|
4,483 |
4,372 |
2,458 |
2,070 |
2,063 |
1,877 |
433 |
371 |
392 |
374 |
326 |
257 |
138 |
57 |
36 |
23 |
6 |
2 |
19,738 |
|  |  |
|  |  |
12,425 | 12,216
(2,608)
2,531
331
–
(75)
(23)
53
– |  | 10,154
(9,435) |  |  | (20)
2,860 |  |  | 285
385 |  |  | 4,414
– |  |  | –
(89) |  |  | (689)
27 |  |  | (267)
(479) |  |  | (8)
4 |  |  | 171
5,698 | 12,425 |  | 14,040
[Page 166]
164 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
7. Investments in joint ventures and associates continued
Summarized financial information (100%) for joint ventures and associates and reconciliation with the carrying amount of the investments
in the consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2019 are set out below:
Summarized balance sheet
At December 31, 2019
Hyundai Petro
Sadara Oilbank Rabigh FREP Bahri Other Total
Current assets:
Cash and cash equivalents 1,611 1,556 316 3,012 164 3,887 10,546
Other 6,780 13,245 11,147 6,429 2,878 3,501 43,980
Total current assets 8,391 14,801 11,463 9,441 3,042 7,388 54,526
Non-current assets 57,559 35,670 62,509 9,506 17,206 27,373 209,823
Current liabilities:
Financial liabilities
(excluding trade and other payables) 5,080 4,226 17,372 688 733 1,294 29,393
Other 2,102 9,030 10,517 3,811 1,249 4,891 31,600
Total current liabilities 7,182 13,256 27,889 4,499 1,982 6,185 60,993
Non-current liabilities:
Financial liabilities
(excluding trade and other payables) 50,771 10,133 35,389 6,019 8,739 13,888 124,939
Other 746 660 654 149 107 1,396 3,712
Total non-current liabilities 51,517 10,793 36,043 6,168 8,846 15,284 128,651
Net assets 7,251 26,422 10,040 8,280 9,420 13,292 74,705
Saudi Aramco interest 65% 17% 37.5% 25% 20% 17%-60%
Saudi Aramco share 4,713 4,492 3,765 2,070 1,884 3,815 20,739
Elimination of profit in inventory 35 – (655) – – 1 (619)
Fair value and other adjustments (265) (120) (652) – 179 476 (382)
Investment balance, December 31 4,483 4,372 2,458 2,070 2,063 4,292 19,738
Summarized statement of comprehensive income
Year ended December 31, 2019
Hyundai Petro
Sadara Oilbank Rabigh FREP Bahri Other Total
Revenue 10,108 2,814 42,420 31,017 6,409 29,534 122,302
Depreciation and amortization 3,850 6 2,973 1,381 933 1,581 10,724
Conventional interest income – 8 384 67 – 85 544
Interest expense 2,448 29 1,225 325 566 534 5,127
Income tax expense 76 12 225 107 91 166 677
Net (loss) income (14,653) 42 (650) 271 477 613 (13,900)
Other comprehensive loss (741) – (59) (104) (23) (36) (963)
Total comprehensive (loss) income (15,394) 42 (709) 167 454 577 (14,863)
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
1,611 | 1,556 | 316 | 3,012 | 164 | 3,887 |  | 10,546
6,780 | 13,245 | 11,147 | 6,429 | 2,878 | 3,501 |  | 43,980
8,391 | 14,801 | 11,463 | 9,441 | 3,042 | 7,388 |  | 54,526
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
57,559 | 35,670 | 62,509 | 9,506 | 17,206 | 27,373 |  | 209,823
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
5,080 | 4,226 | 17,372 | 688 | 733 | 1,294 |  | 29,393
2,102 | 9,030 | 10,517 | 3,811 | 1,249 | 4,891 |  | 31,600
7,182 | 13,256 | 27,889 | 4,499 | 1,982 | 6,185 |  | 60,993
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
50,771 | 10,133 | 35,389 | 6,019 | 8,739 | 13,888 |  | 124,939
746 | 660 | 654 | 149 | 107 | 1,396 |  | 3,712
51,517 | 10,793 | 36,043 | 6,168 | 8,846 | 15,284 |  | 128,651
7,251 | 26,422 | 10,040 | 8,280 | 9,420 | 13,292 |  | 74,705
65% | 17% | 37.5% | 25% | 20% | 17%-60% |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
4,713 | 4,492 | 3,765 | 2,070 | 1,884 | 3,815 |  | 20,739
35 | – | (655) | – | – | 1 |  | (619)
(265) | (120) | (652) | – | 179 | 476 |  | (382)
4,483 | 4,372 | 2,458 | 2,070 | 2,063 | 4,292 |  | 19,738
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
10,108 | 2,814 | 42,420 | 31,017 | 6,409 | 29,534 |  | 122,302
3,850 | 6 | 2,973 | 1,381 | 933 | 1,581 |  | 10,724
– | 8 | 384 | 67 | – | 85 |  | 544
2,448 | 29 | 1,225 | 325 | 566 | 534 |  | 5,127
76 | 12 | 225 | 107 | 91 | 166 |  | 677
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
(14,653) | 42 | (650) | 271 | 477 | 613 |  | (13,900)
(741) | – | (59) | (104) | (23) | (36) |  | (963)
(15,394) | 42 | (709) | 167 | 454 | 577 |  | (14,863)
[Page 167]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 165
7. Investments in joint ventures and associates continued
Conventional financial assets, financial liabilities and interest income (100%) of entities not listed on the Tadawul and included above, are
as follows:
Interest income from
Conventional financial Conventional financial conventional financial
assets as of liabilities as of assets for the year ended
December 31, 2019 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2019
Sadara 5,648 42,991 –
Hyundai Oilbank 8,910 14,359 8
FREP 5,576 6,707 67
Marafiq 2,887 5,462 25
TMC 241 261 –
IMIC 175 9 –
SSPC 1,244 2,149 23
Dussur 1,409 7 34
JVTX 17 – –
FCE – 436 –
S-Oil TOTAL Lubricants Co., Ltd. 282 202 –
GCC Lab 58 2 2
Star-Ent 8 – –
SSRIS 113 – –
ARM 4 34 –
Jasara 195 110 –
Summarized financial information (100%) for joint ventures and associates and reconciliation with the carrying amount of the investments
in the consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2018 are set out below:
Summarized balance sheet
At December 31, 2018
Petro
Sadara Rabigh FREP Bahri Other Total
Current assets:
Cash and cash equivalents 1,384 3,184 4,035 638 3,551 12,792
Other 7,931 15,904 5,104 3,210 3,293 35,442
Total current assets 9,315 19,088 9,139 3,848 6,844 48,234
Non-current assets 72,422 52,178 10,851 18,000 24,019 177,470
Current liabilities:
Financial liabilities (excluding trade and other payables) 3,525 13,898 656 1,478 1,413 20,970
Other 6,105 14,273 2,700 1,136 4,714 28,928
Total current liabilities 9,630 28,171 3,356 2,614 6,127 49,898
Non-current liabilities:
Financial liabilities (excluding trade and other payables) 48,634 33,641 6,806 9,401 11,674 110,156
Other 5,280 488 154 65 1,251 7,238
Total non-current liabilities 53,914 34,129 6,960 9,466 12,925 117,394
Net assets 18,193 8,966 9,674 9,768 11,811 58,412
Saudi Aramco interest 65% 37.5% 25% 20% 20%-50.1%
Saudi Aramco share 11,825 3,362 2,419 1,954 3,409 22,969
Elimination of profit in inventory 11 (388) – – (2) (379)
Fair value and other adjustments (176) (211) – 175 201 (11)
Investment balance, December 31 11,660 2,763 2,419 2,129 3,608 22,579
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
5,648 | 42,991 | –
8,910 | 14,359 | 8
5,576 | 6,707 | 67
2,887 | 5,462 | 25
241 | 261 | –
175 | 9 | –
1,244 | 2,149 | 23
1,409 | 7 | 34
17 | – | –
– | 436 | –
282 | 202 | –
58 | 2 | 2
8 | – | –
113 | – | –
4 | 34 | –
195 | 110 | –
[Page 168]
166 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
7. Investments in joint ventures and associates continued
Summarized statement of comprehensive income
Year ended December 31, 2018
Petro
Sadara Rabigh FREP Bahri Other Total
Revenue 13,114 42,165 29,760 5,783 43,230 134,052
Depreciation and amortization 3,848 2,445 1,373 833 2,850 11,349
Conventional interest income – 296 90 – 60 446
Interest expense 2,258 728 368 270 502 4,126
Income tax expense 49 128 638 101 319 1,235
Net (loss) income (4,009) 1,301 1,609 611 319 (169)
Other comprehensive income (loss) 94 (15) (495) – (664) (1,080)
Total comprehensive (loss) income (3,915) 1,286 1,114 611 (345) (1,249)
Conventional financial assets, financial liabilities and interest income (100%) of entities not listed on the Tadawul and included above, are
as follows:
Interest income from
Conventional financial Conventional financial conventional financial
assets as of liabilities as of assets for the year ended
December 31, 2018 December 31, 2018 December 31, 2018
Sadara 6,765 52,159 –
FREP 4,778 7,463 90
Marafiq 2,906 5,213 26
IMIC 859 124 –
SSPC 1,155 – 30
Dussur 544 8 –
JVTX 8 23 –
FCE – 585 –
S-Oil TOTAL Lubricants Co., Ltd. 251 143 –
GCC LAB 109 – 4
Star-Ent – – –
Jasara 38 – –
Saudi Aramco’s share of the fair value of the associates listed on the Tadawul at December 31 together with their carrying value at those dates
is as follows:
Fair value Carrying value
2019 2018 2019 2018
Petro Rabigh 7,115 6,268 2,458 2,763
Bahri 3,150 2,630 2,063 2,129
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
7,115 | 6,268
2,630 |  | 2,458
3,150 |  |  | 2,063
[Page 169]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 167
8. Income taxes
(a) Kingdom income tax rates
The Company is subject to an income tax rate of 20% on the activities of exploration and production of non-associated natural gas, including
gas condensates, as well as the collection, treatment, processing, fractionation and transportation of associated and non-associated natural gas
and their liquids, gas condensates and other associated elements, and an income tax rate of 50% on all other activities, in accordance with the
Tax Law.
Effective January 1, 2020, the tax rate applicable to the Company’s Downstream activities was reduced from the 50% rate applicable to qualified
domestic oil and hydrocarbon production companies to the general corporate tax rate of 20% applicable to similar domestic downstream
companies under the Tax Law. The new rate is conditioned on the Company separating its Downstream activities under the control of one
or more separate wholly owned subsidiaries before December 31, 2024, otherwise the Company’s Downstream activities will be retroactively
taxed at 50%. The Company expects to transfer all its Downstream activities into a separate legal entity or entities within the period specified
(Note 2(a)(iii)).
Income tax expense is primarily based on income arising in Saudi Arabia.
The reconciliation of tax charge at the Kingdom statutory rates to consolidated tax charge is as follows:
2019 2018
Income before income taxes 666,741 797,896
Income taxes at the Kingdom’s statutory tax rates 328,721 387,937
Tax effect of:
Impact of change in income tax rates on deferred tax 2,655 (3,904)
Impact of change from zakat to income tax on investments in shares of resident capital companies – 1,282
Income not subject to tax at statutory rates and other 4,672 (3,937)
336,048 381,378
(b) Income tax expense
2019 2018
Current income tax – Kingdom 319,979 365,415
Current income tax – Foreign 353 349
Deferred income tax – Kingdom:
Impact of change in income tax rates 2,655 (3,904)
Charge for the period 12,610 19,830
Deferred income tax – Foreign 451 (312)
336,048 381,378
Saudi Aramco paid foreign taxes of SAR 437 and SAR 605 for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Income tax expense recorded through other comprehensive income was SAR 1,542 for the year ended December 31, 2019 (2018: SAR 5,863).
(c) Income tax obligation to the Government
2019 2018
January 1 70,299 59,584
Provided during the period 319,979 365,415
Payments during the period by the Company (Note 31) (149,780) (180,225)
Payments during the period by subsidiaries and joint operations (1,023) (1,075)
Settlements of due from the Government (172,301) (167,752)
Other settlements (4,931) (5,648)
December 31 62,243 70,299
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|
666,741 |
|
328,721 |
|
|
2,655 |
– |
4,672 |
336,048 |
|
319,979 |
353 |
|
2,655 |
12,610 |
451 |
336,048 |
|
70,299 |
319,979 |
(149,780) |
(1,023) |
(172,301) |
(4,931) |
62,243 |
[Page 170]
168 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
8. Income taxes continued
(d) Deferred income tax
2019 2018
Deferred income tax assets:
Kingdom 12,386 8,946
U.S. Federal and State 31 14
Other foreign 311 906
12,728 9,866
Deferred income tax liabilities:
Kingdom 37,943 18,637
U.S. Federal and State 3,312 2,234
Other foreign 3,216 3,006
44,471 23,877
Net deferred income tax liabilities (31,743) (14,011)
The gross movement of the net deferred income tax position is as follows:
2019 2018
January 1 (14,011) 7,297
Impact of change in income tax rate – (charge)/credit to income (2,655) 3,904
Impact of change in income tax rate – Other reserves (284) (119)
Current period charge to income (13,061) (19,518)
Adjustments to equity – Other reserves (1,258) (5,744)
Other adjustments (474) 169
December 31 (31,743) (14,011)
2019 2018
Deferred income tax to be settled after more than 12 months (31,743) (14,011)
Deferred income tax to be recovered within 12 months – –
Net deferred income tax liabilities (31,743) (14,011)
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
[TABLE DATA]
|
|
12,386 |
31 |
311 |
12,728 |
|
|
37,943 |
3,312 |
3,216 |
44,471 |
(31,743) |
|
(14,011) |
(2,655) |
(284) |
(13,061) |
(1,258) |
(474) |
(31,743) |
|
(31,743) |
– |
(31,743) |
[Page 171]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 169
8. Income taxes continued
The movement in deferred income tax assets/(liabilities) for the years ended December 31 is as follows:
Property
Post- plant and
employment equipment Investments
benefit Investment Undistributed Provisions Loss carry- and in securities
obligations in subsidiary earnings and other forward intangibles at FVOCI Total
January 1, 2018
Deferred tax assets 19,411 – – 12,554 4,960 (20,797) (2,522) 13,606
Deferred tax liabilities – (6,726) (885) (1,079) 2,381 – – (6,309)
19,411 (6,726) (885) 11,475 7,341 (20,797) (2,522) 7,297
Recognized during the year
Impact of change in income
tax rate (119) – – (538) – 4,442 – 3,785
Current period (charges)/
credits to income (1,404) 3,094 105 (2,267) 433 (19,479) – (19,518)
Other reserves (charges)/
credits (6,636) – – – – – 892 (5,744)
Other adjustments – – – 169 – – – 169
(8,159) 3,094 105 (2,636) 433 (15,037) 892 (21,308)
December 31, 2018
Deferred tax assets 1,873 – – 1,256 6,737 – – 9,866
Deferred tax liabilities 9,379 (3,632) (780) 7,583 1,037 (35,834) (1,630) (23,877)
11,252 (3,632) (780) 8,839 7,774 (35,834) (1,630) (14,011)
Recognized during the year
Impact of change
in income tax rate (464) – – (457) – (2,198) 180 (2,939)
Current period credits/
(charges) to income 194 (1,196) 44 3,285 2,043 (17,431) – (13,061)
Impact of adoption of IFRS 16 – – – 7,906 – (7,906) – –
Other reserves charges (526) – – – – – (732) (1,258)
Other adjustments – – – (474) – – – (474)
(796) (1,196) 44 10,260 2,043 (27,535) (552) (17,732)
December 31, 2019
Deferred tax assets 3,328 – – 685 8,715 – – 12,728
Deferred tax liabilities 7,128 (4,828) (736) 18,414 1,102 (63,369) (2,182) (44,471)
10,456 (4,828) (736) 19,099 9,817 (63,369) (2,182) (31,743)
To reflect the change in income tax rate effective January 1, 2020 for Downstream activities, deferred tax liabilities, net of deferred tax assets,
were increased by SAR 2,939, of which SAR 2,655 was recognized as an increase of income taxes in the Consolidated Statement of Income,
and SAR 284 was recognized as an increase of income taxes in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
A deferred income tax liability has not been recognized with regard to the undistributed earnings of certain subsidiaries which are considered
to be permanently reinvested in their respective businesses. Such earnings would be taxed only upon distribution. The cumulative amount of the
undistributed earnings of such subsidiaries is SAR 32,674 and SAR 31,922 at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and the unrecognized
deferred income tax liability is SAR 3,215 and SAR 3,547 at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
(e) Tax assessments
The Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates are subject to tax review and audit in tax jurisdictions where they operate. In October 2019, the
Company and its wholly owned domestic affiliates were notified that the Saudi Arabian income tax submissions for all years up to and including
the year ended December 31, 2018 were accepted as filed.
For the Company’s other domestic and international affiliates, examinations of tax returns for certain prior tax years had not been completed as
of December 31, 2019; however, the Company is not aware of any significant claims. Therefore, no material provision for any additional income
tax liability has been recorded in the consolidated financial statements.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
(464) | – | – | (457) | – | (2,198) | 180 | (2,939)
194 | (1,196) | 44 | 3,285 | 2,043 | (17,431) | – | (13,061)
– | – | – | 7,906 | – | (7,906) | – | –
(526) | – | – | – | – | – | (732) | (1,258)
– | – | – | (474) | – | – | – | (474)
(796) | (1,196) | 44 | 10,260 | 2,043 | (27,535) | (552) | (17,732)
|  |  |  |  |  |  |
3,328 | – | – | 685 | 8,715 | – | – | 12,728
7,128 | (4,828) | (736) | 18,414 | 1,102 | (63,369) | (2,182) | (44,471)
10,456 | (4,828) | (736) | 19,099 | 9,817 | (63,369) | (2,182) | (31,743)
[Page 172]
170 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
9. Other assets and receivables
2019 2018
Non-current:
Contractor advances 6,768 305
Home loans 5,999 5,023
Loans to joint ventures and associates (Note 32(b)) 4,480 2,777
Home ownership construction 3,160 4,088
Lease receivable from associates (Note 32(b)) 440 452
Derivative assets – 191
Other 525 291
21,372 13,127
Current:
Employee and other receivables 4,999 3,557
Tax receivables 2,569 2,347
Interest receivable 1,144 171
Prepaid expenses 1,400 2,984
Home loans 848 750
Derivative assets 331 2,610
Investments in securities (Note 10) 281 558
Rig mobilization fees 242 398
Assets held for sale 81 81
Receivables from joint ventures and associates (Note 32(b)) 15 71
Other 199 248
12,109 13,775
Home loans
The home ownership programs provide subsidized non-interest-bearing loans to Saudi Arabian employees. Loans are repayable through payroll
deductions and are net of associated subsidies. Any balance remaining upon the death, permanent disability or termination of an employee
under the Chronic Medical Condition Program is forgiven. An analysis of the home loans balance is as follows:
2019 2018
Gross amounts receivable 9,317 8,470
Less:
Discount (1,610) (1,868)
Allowance for doubtful home loans (536) (480)
Subsidies (324) (349)
Net amounts receivable 6,847 5,773
Current (848) (750)
Non-current 5,999 5,023
10. Investments in securities
2019 2018
January 1 17,772 19,142
Acquisitions – 11
Net additions 889 490
Net unrealized fair value gain/(loss) 1,598 (1,871)
Net unrealized foreign currency loss (22) –
December 31 20,237 17,772
Current (Note 9) (281) (558)
Non-current 19,956 17,214
Net additions include unsettled transactions of SAR 21 at December 31, 2019 (2018: SAR (125)). Investments in securities are carried at fair value.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
[TABLE DATA]
|
|
6,768 |
5,999 |
4,480 |
3,160 |
440 |
– |
525 |
21,372 |
|
4,999 |
2,569 |
1,144 |
1,400 |
848 |
331 |
281 |
242 |
81 |
15 |
199 |
12,109 |
|
9,317 |
|
(1,610) |
(536) |
(324) |
6,847 |
(848) |
5,999 |
|
17,772 |
– |
889 |
1,598 |
(22) |
20,237 |
(281) |
19,956 |
[Page 173]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 171
10. Investments in securities continued
The components of Investments in securities are as follows:
2019
Carrying
Percentage amount as of
ownership December 31
Equity investments classified as FVOCI:
Equity investments – listed securities:
Saudi Electricity Company (“SEC”) 6.9% 5,835
Idemitsu Kosan Co., Ltd. (“Idemitsu”) 7.7% 2,411
Equity investments – unlisted securities:
Arab Petroleum Pipeline Company (“Sumed”) 15.0% 817
Industrialization & Energy Services Company (“TAQA”) 4.6% 270
Daehan Oil Pipeline Corporation (“Daehan”) 8.9% 157
Investments in debt securities classified as FVOCI:
USD debt securities with fixed interest rates ranging from 0.7% to 8.8%
and maturity dates between January 2020 and September 2057 3,840
USD debt securities with variable interest rates and maturity dates between January 2020 and October 2069 724
14,054
Equity investments classified as FVPL:
Listed securities – mutual and hedge funds 4,796
Unlisted securities 1,387
20,237
Current portion (Note 9) (281)
Non-current 19,956
2018
Carrying
Percentage amount as of
ownership December 31
Equity investments classified as FVOCI:
Equity investments – listed securities:
Saudi Electricity Company (“SEC”) 6.9% 4,369
Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. (“Showa Shell”) 15.1% 2,955
Equity investments – unlisted securities:
Arab Petroleum Pipeline Company (“Sumed”) 15.0% 824
Industrialization & Energy Services Company (“TAQA”) 4.6% 315
Daehan Oil Pipeline Corporation (“Daehan”) 8.9% 154
Investments in debt securities classified as FVOCI:
USD debt securities with fixed interest rates ranging from 0.7% to 8.8%
and maturity dates between January 2019 and February 2051 3,338
USD debt securities with variable interest rates and maturity dates between January 2019 and October 2068 589
12,544
Equity investments classified as FVPL:
Listed securities – mutual and hedge funds 4,189
Unlisted securities 1,039
17,772
Current portion (Note 9) (558)
Non-current 17,214
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|
|
6.9% | 5,835
7.7% | 2,411
|
|
15.0% | 817
4.6% | 270
8.9% | 157
|
|
| 3,840
| 724
| 14,054
|
| 4,796
| 1,387
| 20,237
| (281)
| 19,956
[Page 174]
172 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
10. Investments in securities continued
On April 1, 2019, Saudi Aramco received 23.1 million common shares of Idemitsu in exchange for its shareholding of 56.4 million common
shares of Showa Shell Sekiyu, K.K. (“Showa Shell”). As a result of this transaction, Saudi Aramco’s interest in Idemitsu is 7.7% of Idemitsu’s
total common shares, which does not meet the requirement for significant influence. The investment in Idemitsu in the amount of SAR 2,411
at December 31, 2019 is accounted for at fair value through other comprehensive income.
Equity investments designated at FVOCI are not held for trading. Instead they are held for medium to long-term strategic purposes. Accordingly,
management has elected to designate these equity investments at FVOCI as recognizing short-term fluctuations in these investments’ fair value
in net income would not be consistent with Saudi Aramco’s strategy of holding these investments for long-term purposes and realizing their
performance potential in the long run.
The fair value of Sumed is based on expected cash flows discounted using a rate based on market interest rates and a risk premium specific to
the unlisted security which was 8.0% and 10.6% at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The fair value of TAQA is based on an earnings
growth factor for unlisted equity securities from market information for similar types of companies. The fair value of Daehan is determined using
discounted cash flow analysis based on the risk adjusted yield.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date of the investments in debt securities is the fair value. To limit credit risk, Saudi Aramco’s
investment policy requires that these securities be diversified. Credit ratings for debt securities held at December 31, 2019 range from AAA to BB
(2018: AAA to BB) as set out by internationally recognized credit rating agencies.
11. Inventories
2019 2018
Crude oil, refined products and chemicals 35,839 37,241
Materials and supplies – net 6,595 6,130
Natural gas liquids and other 173 209
42,607 43,580
The carrying amount of materials and supplies are shown net of an allowance for obsolete and surplus materials with movement as follows:
2019 2018
Balance, January 1 2,088 1,911
Net movement in allowance (91) 177
Balance, December 31 1,997 2,088
12. Trade receivables
Trade receivables from export and local sales are denominated primarily in USD and SAR, respectively.
The components of trade receivables are as follows:
2019 2018
Arising from export and local sales at international prices 86,058 81,662
Arising from local sales at Kingdom regulated prices 8,322 12,995
94,380 94,657
Less: Loss allowance (854) (839)
93,526 93,818
Trade receivables relating to certain contracts with provisional pricing arrangements are measured at fair value. The fair value was calculated
using forward curves and future prices. These trade receivables are classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy (Note 3(d)) due to the inclusion
of unobservable inputs including counterparty credit risk in the fair value calculation.
As described in Note 2(n), the Government through the Ministry of Finance provided a guarantee to the Company in the event that certain
Government and semi-Government agencies are unable to settle within the terms agreed with the Company.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
[TABLE DATA]
|
35,839 |
6,595 |
173 |
42,607 |
|
2,088 |
(91) |
1,997 |
|
86,058 |
8,322 |
94,380 |
(854) |
93,526 |
[Page 175]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 173
12. Trade receivables continued
The movement of the allowance for trade receivables related to past due sales is as follows:
2019 2018
January 1 839 856
Net movement in allowance 15 (17)
December 31 854 839
13. Due from the Government
2019 2018
Other income related to sales (Note 2(y)) 28,670 35,267
Government guarantee (Note 2(n)) 7,189 12,872
Other 922 725
Note 32(b) 36,781 48,864
14. Short-term investments
2019 2018
USD time deposits 42,585 –
USD Murabaha time deposits (Shari’a compliant) 1,875 –
South Korean Won time deposits 875 154
SAR time deposits 132 40
45,467 194
15. Cash and cash equivalents
2019 2018
Cash at bank and in hand 45,063 31,015
USD time deposits 119,031 146,886
USD Murabaha time deposits (Shari’a compliant) 2,570 1,440
SAR time deposits 4,959 1,277
SAR repurchase agreements 2,800 328
SAR Murabaha time deposits (Shari’a compliant) 2,369 –
South Korean Won time deposits 914 2,206
177,706 183,152
16. Treasury shares
On December 11, 2019, the Company acquired 117.2 million ordinary shares from the Government for cash consideration of SAR 3,750, which
continue to be held at December 31, 2019 (2018: nil). These shares are held by the Company as treasury shares for the purposes of issuing them
to the Company’s employees upon the vesting of the grant award (Note 17) and any other employee share plans that the Company may adopt
in the future.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|
839 |
15 |
854 |
|
28,670 |
7,189 |
922 |
36,781 |
|
42,585 |
1,875 |
875 |
132 |
45,467 |
|
45,063 |
119,031 |
2,570 |
4,959 |
2,800 |
2,369 |
914 |
177,706 |
[Page 176]
174 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
17. Share-based compensation
The Company recognized the following share-based compensation expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income, as an employee benefit
expense, for the year ended December 31, 2019.
2019 2018
Equity-settled 32 –
Cash-settled 1 –
33 –
This share-based compensation relates to a grant of ordinary shares awarded in December 2019 to the Company’s eligible employees under the
plan terms of the grant.
The grant is subject to a 12-month vesting period from its grant date and is subject to a service condition during the vesting period, except for
certain qualifying leavers. The grant will be settled with the employees in shares on vesting, except for certain qualifying employees who will
receive cash settlement.
The fair value of the grant was determined by reference to the market value of the Company’s ordinary shares on the date of grant for equity-
settled awards and at the balance sheet date for cash-settled awards. The participants in the grant are entitled to dividend equivalents, if
dividends are declared to ordinary shareholders, during the vesting period. Such dividend equivalents will be paid in cash on vesting of the grant
or upon separation for qualifying leavers. Accordingly, no adjustment for expected dividends during the vesting period was made in determining
the fair value of the grant.
The number of shares and weighted average fair value per share (“WAFV”), under the grant, granted during the year were:
2019
Number of
shares WAFV
(in millions) (SAR)
Grant 16 35.20
At December 31, 2019, the total carrying amount of the liabilities in respect of the cash settlement elements of the grant was SAR 2 (2018: nil).
There were no outstanding vested awards at December 31, 2019 (2018: nil).
18. Other reserves
Share of other
comprehensive income (loss)
of joint ventures and
associates
Post-
Post- employment Foreign
Currency Investments employment Share-based Cash flow benefit currency
translation in securities benefit payment hedges and obligations translation
differences at FVOCI obligations reserve other and other gains (losses) Total
January 1, 2018 798 4,492 – – (105) (153) 638 5,670
Current period change (1,110) (2,547) – – 36 157 (440) (3,904)
Remeasurement gain – 82 13,556 – – – – 13,638
Transfer to retained earnings – – (6,822) – – – – (6,822)
Tax effect – 892 (6,755) – – – – (5,863)
Less: amounts related
to non-controlling interests 441 – 21 – (5) – – 457
December 31, 2018 129 2,919 – – (74) 4 198 3,176
Current period change (1,027) 1,517 – 31 (353) (480) (7) (319)
Remeasurement (loss)/gain – (539) 3,154 – – 2 – 2,617
Transfer to retained earnings – – (2,178) – – (2) – (2,180)
Tax effect – (552) (990) – – – – (1,542)
Less: amounts related
to non-controlling interests 313 (3) 14 – – – – 324
December 31, 2019 (585) 3,342 – 31 (427) (476) 191 2,076
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
[TABLE DATA]
|
32 |
1 |
33 |
16 | 35.20
129 | 2,919 | – | – | (74) | 4 | 198 | 3,176
(1,027) | 1,517 | – | 31 | (353) | (480) | (7) | (319)
– | (539) | 3,154 | – | – | 2 | – | 2,617
– | – | (2,178) | – | – | (2) | – | (2,180)
– | (552) | (990) | – | – | – | – | (1,542)
313 | (3) | 14 | – | – | – | – | 324
(585) | 3,342 | – | 31 | (427) | (476) | 191 | 2,076
[Page 177]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 175
19. Borrowings
2019 2018
Non-current:
Borrowings 39,957 25,934
Debentures 60,957 17,014
Sukuk (Shari’a compliant) 12,649 12,821
Lease liabilities (Note 2(c)(i)) 33,831 12,329
Other1 3,296 3,231
150,690 71,329
Current:
Short-term bank financing 12,660 23,174
Borrowings 4,957 5,906
Sukuk (Shari’a compliant) 175 180
Lease liabilities (Note 2(c)(i)) 7,103 729
24,895 29,989
2019 2018
Finance costs:
Conventional borrowing 3,144 1,576
Lease liabilities 1,790 480
Shari’a compliant financial instruments 652 593
Unwinding of discount (Note 21) 440 310
6,026 2,959
1. Other borrowings comprise loans from non-financial institutions under commercial terms.
Borrowing facilities
Saudi Aramco has entered into long-term financing arrangements with various lenders. These financing arrangements limit the creation of
additional liens and/or financing obligations and certain of these arrangements are secured over certain property, plant and equipment of
Saudi Aramco with a carrying value of SAR 38,074 (2018: SAR 39,699). Additionally, certain financing arrangements require compliance by
Saudi Aramco with covenants to maintain certain financial and other conditions. Saudi Aramco has complied with these covenants throughout
the reporting period.
Details of financing facilities at December 31 are as follows:
Total facility Total undrawn
Note 2019 2018 2019 2018
Conventional facilities:
Revolving credit facilities a 49,350 47,677 46,489 47,677
Commercial and other b 41,576 25,218 4,249 3,263
Short-term borrowings c 25,500 33,840 15,698 10,928
Export credit agencies d 6,354 13,854 – 7,500
Public Investment Fund e 4,594 4,594 – –
Shari'a compliant facilities:
Sukuk a 39,844 39,844 26,250 26,250
Murabaha b 3,750 3,750 – –
Saudi Industrial Development Fund c 3,248 3,248 – –
Ijarah/Procurement d 1,811 2,528 – –
Wakala e 345 821 – –
176,372 175,374 92,686 95,618
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|
|
39,957 |
60,957 |
12,649 |
33,831 |
3,296 |
150,690 |
|
12,660 |
4,957 |
175 |
7,103 |
24,895 |
|
|
3,144 |
1,790 |
652 |
440 |
6,026 |
|  |  |
|  |  |
| 47,677
25,218
33,840
13,854
4,594
39,844
3,750
3,248
2,528
821 |  |
49,350 |  |  | 46,489
41,576 |  |  | 4,249
25,500 |  |  | 15,698
6,354 |  |  | –
4,594 |  |  | –
|  |  |
|  |  |
39,844 |  |  | 26,250
3,750 |  |  | –
3,248 |  |  | –
1,811 |  |  | –
345 |  |  | –
176,372 | 175,374 |  | 92,686
[Page 178]
176 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
19. Borrowings continued
Conventional facilities
(a) Revolving credit facilities
At December 31, 2019, Saudi Aramco held facilities that total SAR 49,350 (2018: SAR 47,677) consisting of:
(i) T he Company maintains USD denominated facilities comprising a conventional five-year facility equivalent to SAR 22,500 ($6,000) and a
364-day facility equivalent to SAR 3,750 ($1,000) along with SAR denominated Islamic Murabaha facilities comprising a five-year facility of
SAR 7,500 and a 364-day facility of SAR 3,750. The facilities were established in March 2015 and were extended for two years in 2019 and
will mature in March 2022. The credit facility documentation provides for certain limits on the creation of liens on or other security interests
in the assets of the Company, and on the sale, lease or transfer, of its assets to third parties.
(ii) S audi Aramco subsidiaries maintain facilities of SAR 11,850 (2018: SAR 10,177), consisting of revolving credit facilities of SAR 9,056 ($2,415),
and a letter of credit facility of SAR 2,794 ($745) for working capital requirements and to support trading activities. The facilities are expected
to be renewed in 2020 and 2022. The remaining revolving credit facilities are executed with a group of foreign and domestic banks for
general corporate purposes and working capital requirements.
(b) Commercial and other
Saudi Aramco has commercial and other facility agreements with a number of banks. The facilities are primarily repayable in twelve to twenty-
seven installments on a semi-annual basis from June 15, 2014 to December 21, 2034. Commission is payable on amounts drawn that are
primarily calculated at a market rate plus a margin.
In 2019, Saudi Aramco refinanced an existing commercial facility having a balance of SAR 2,818 repayable to December 20, 2025. Under the
refinancing agreement, the facility of SAR 3,105 is repayable in seven installments starting June 20, 2026 to June 20, 2029. Commission is
payable on amounts drawn that are primarily calculated at a market rate plus a margin starting June 20, 2020.
(c) Short-term borrowings
(i) O n December 18, 2019, Saudi Aramco refinanced certain short-term bank financing through long-term project financing with 21 commercial
banks and 6 export credit agencies. These long-term facilities were established in the amount of SAR 17,438 and payable in twenty-seven
installments on a semi-annual basis commencing on December 2021 to December 2034. Commission is payable on amounts drawn and
calculated at market rate plus margin.
(ii) S audi Aramco has facilities with a number of banks for short-term borrowing with each borrowing less than one year and which incur
interest at market rates plus a margin.
(d) Export credit agencies
(i) UK Export Finance facility
On October 11, 2017, Saudi Aramco entered into a USD denominated facility equivalent to SAR 7,500 ($2,000) with five commercial banks which
is guaranteed by UK Export Finance. The facility expired during 2019 and no portion was drawn down as of the expiration date.
(ii) Other Export Credit Agencies
Saudi Aramco has facility agreements with six export credit agencies. The facilities are repayable in twenty-three installments on a semi-annual
basis from December 20, 2014 to December 20, 2025. Commission is payable on amounts drawn and is calculated at a market rate plus a
margin.
(e) Public Investment Fund
Saudi Aramco has facility agreements with the Saudi Public Investment Fund. The facilities are repayable in fourteen to twenty-three installments
on a semi-annual basis from December 20, 2014 to December 20, 2025. Commission is payable on amounts drawn and is calculated at a market
rate plus a margin.
Shari'a compliant facilities
(a) Sukuk
A Sukuk is a financial instrument similar to a bond that complies with Islamic financing principles.
(i) O n April 10, 2017, Saudi Aramco issued a Sukuk for SAR 11,250 at par value as part of a SAR 37,500 program. The Sukuk issuance provides
a return based on Saudi Arabian Interbank Offered Rate (“SAIBOR”) plus a pre-determined margin payable semi-annually on April 10 and
October 10. The Sukuk matures on April 10, 2024. In accordance with the terms of the Sukuk, 51% of the proceeds from issuance are
invested in Mudaraba assets and the remaining 49% are used in a Murabaha arrangement.
(ii) O n October 9, 2011, Saudi Aramco issued a Sukuk for SAR 2,344 at par value with semi-annual payments from December 20, 2014 to
December 20, 2025 that provides a rate of return above SAIBOR. The Sukuk was structured as Istisnah for pre-construction and Ijara for
post-construction of the project.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
[Page 179]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 177
19. Borrowings continued
(b) Murabaha
Saudi Aramco has a Murabaha Shari’a compliant Islamic facility. The facility is repayable in ten equal installments of 7% on a semi-annual
basis from April 20, 2018 to October 20, 2022, and a 30% balloon payment on April 20, 2023. Commission is payable on amounts drawn and
is calculated at a market rate plus a margin.
(c) Saudi Industrial Development Fund
Saudi Aramco has facility agreements with the Saudi Industrial Development Fund. The facilities bear no periodic financial charges and
borrowings are repayable in fourteen to twenty-two unequal installments on a semi-annual basis according to the Hijri calendar commencing
from 15 Sha'aban 1437 H (May 22, 2016) to 15 Safar 1452 (June 30, 2030).
(d) Ijarah/Procurement
Saudi Aramco had Procurement Shari’a compliant Islamic facility agreements with a number of banks. The facilities were repayable in twenty-
three unequal installments on a semi-annual basis commencing December 20, 2014 to December 20, 2025. In 2019, Saudi Aramco refinanced
the balance of the procurement facility with an Ijarah Shari’a compliant facility repayable in seven unequal installments on a semi-annual basis
starting June 20, 2026 to June 20, 2029. Commission is payable on amounts drawn that are primarily calculated at a market rate plus a margin
starting June 20, 2020.
(e) Wakala
Saudi Aramco has Shari’a compliant Islamic facility agreements with two lenders. The facilities utilize a Wakala financing structure which
is an agency arrangement.
In 2019, Saudi Aramco refinanced the Wakala Shari’a compliant Islamic facilities. The facilities were repayable in twenty-three unequal
installments on a semi-annual basis commencing December 20, 2014 to December 20, 2025. In 2019, Saudi Aramco refinanced the balance
of the facility to be repayable in seven unequal installments on a semi-annual basis starting June 20, 2026 to June 20, 2029. Commission is
payable on amounts drawn that are primarily calculated at a market rate plus a margin starting June 20, 2020.
At the Consolidated Balance Sheet date, the carrying values of Saudi Aramco’s non-current borrowings approximate their fair values.
The carrying amounts of non-current borrowings, excluding lease liabilities, at December 31 are as follows:
2019 2018
Conventional facilities:
Commercial and other 32,996 16,972
Export credit agencies 3,743 4,230
Public Investment Fund (Note 32(b)) 2,880 3,341
Other 3,300 3,231
Shari'a compliant facilities:
Sukuk 12,825 13,009
Saudi Industrial Development Fund (Note 32(b)) 2,486 2,778
Ijarah/Procurement 1,811 1,901
Murabaha 1,084 2,456
Wakala 345 615
61,470 48,533
Less: unamortized transaction costs (436) (461)
61,034 48,072
Debentures denominated in USD 52,283 8,479
Debentures denominated in Korean Won 9,206 8,535
Less: unamortized transaction costs (532) –
121,991 65,086
Less: current portion (5,132) (6,086)
Non-current portion 116,859 59,000
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|
|
32,996 |
3,743 |
2,880 |
3,300 |
|
|
12,825 |
2,486 |
1,811 |
1,084 |
345 |
61,470 |
(436) |
61,034 |
52,283 |
9,206 |
(532) |
121,991 |
(5,132) |
116,859 |
[Page 180]
178 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
19. Borrowings continued
Movements in unamortized transaction costs are as follows:
2019 2018
January 1 461 364
Additional transaction costs incurred 769 157
Less: amortization (262) (60)
December 31 968 461
Debentures
(i) C ertain debentures denominated in USD are issued in capital markets. Interest rates are fixed and variable with maturities that range
between 2027 and 2049.
(ii) D ebentures denominated in Korean Won are issued in capital markets. Interest rates range from 1.65% to 3.53% with maturities beginning
in 2020 through 2029.
(iii) O n April 16, 2019, the Company issued five tranches of USD denominated unsecured notes aggregating equivalent to SAR 45,000 ($12,000)
and consisting of three-year maturities for SAR 3,750 ($1,000) with a coupon rate of 2.75%, five-year maturities for SAR 7,500 ($2,000) with
a coupon rate of 2.875%, ten-year maturities for SAR 11,250 ($3,000) with a coupon rate of 3.5%, twenty-year maturities for SAR 11,250
($3,000) with a coupon rate of 4.25%, and thirty-year maturities for SAR 11,250 ($3,000) with a coupon rate of 4.375%. The notes were issued
and sold in accordance with Rule 144A/Regulation S under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Interest is payable semi-annually in
arrears on April 16 and October 16. The notes are listed on the London Stock Exchange’s Regulated Market and the proceeds were for general
corporate purposes. At initial recognition, the Company recorded an amount of SAR 44,460 ($11,856) for the issuance proceeds, net of
discounts and estimated transaction costs. Discounts and transaction costs are amortized using the effective interest method and are reflected
as finance costs in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Lease liabilities
Covenants of certain long-term financing facilities require Saudi Aramco to maintain defined financial and other conditions. Lease liabilities
are effectively secured as the rights to the leased asset revert to the lessor in the event of default. The lessor has ownership of the assets
during the term of the contract and is responsible for the operation, insurance and maintenance of the assets until termination of the underlying
agreements. For certain leases, the lessor shall transfer its rights, title and interest in the assets to the lessee on the last day of the agreements:
for others, there are no further obligations on completion of agreements. Performance guarantees are provided by the lessor under the terms
of the agreements.
The total cash outflow for leases for the year ended December 31, 2019 was SAR 7,751. Expenses relating to short-term and low value leases
were recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 2019 and amounted to SAR 2,558 and SAR 540,
respectively.
Maturities of long-term borrowings and leases are as follows:
Later than
one year and Total Total
No later than no later than Later than contractual carrying
one year five years five years amount amount
2019
Borrowings 8,165 51,383 104,202 163,750 122,959
Leases 8,405 21,867 30,067 60,339 40,934
16,570 73,250 134,269 224,089 163,893
2018
Borrowings 6,946 28,931 41,163 77,040 65,547
Leases 1,655 5,601 15,711 22,967 13,058
8,601 34,532 56,874 100,007 78,605
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
[TABLE DATA]
|
461 |
769 |
(262) |
968 |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
8,165 | 51,383 | 104,202 | 163,750 |  | 122,959
8,405 | 21,867 | 30,067 | 60,339 |  | 40,934
16,570 | 73,250 | 134,269 | 224,089 |  | 163,893
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
[Page 181]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 179
19. Borrowings continued
The movement of borrowings is as follows:
Total
liabilities
from
Long-term Short-term Lease financing
borrowings borrowings liabilities activities
January 1, 2018 67,787 4,857 4,954 77,598
Cash flows (3,083) 3,986 (339) 564
Non-cash changes:
Acquisitions (Note 33) – 14,331 248 14,579
Finance lease additions (Note 25) – – 8,195 8,195
Foreign exchange adjustment (540) – – (540)
Others 922 – – 922
December 31, 2018 65,086 23,174 13,058 101,318
Cash flows 14,011 (11,662) (7,751) (5,402)
Debentures 44,460 – – 44,460
Non-cash changes:
Acquisitions (Note 33) – – 94 94
Lease liabilities on adoption of IFRS 16 (Note 2(c)(i)) – – 26,051 26,051
Lease additions (Note 25) – – 9,670 9,670
Foreign exchange adjustment (454) 27 8 (419)
Others (1,112) 1,121 (196) (187)
December 31, 2019 121,991 12,660 40,934 175,585
20. Post-employment benefit obligations
Saudi Aramco sponsors several funded and unfunded defined benefit pension plans and other post-employment benefit plans that provide
pension, severance, death, medical and/or other benefits to substantially all of its employees primarily in Saudi Arabia. Majority of the defined
benefit plans for Saudi Arabia based employees are governed under the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia employment law, Pension Protection Act
(“PPA”) rules of the USA, and Company policies. Benefits to employees of group companies are provided based on local regulations and
practices of the respective jurisdiction.
Retirement benefits for defined benefit pension plans are paid, primarily, in the form of lump sum payments upon retirement based on final
salary and length of service. Other post-employment benefits such as medical are used to cover retired employees and eligible dependents of
retirees for medical services in line with the plan policy documents.
At December 31, the net liability recognized for employee defined benefit plans in the Consolidated Balance Sheet is as follows:
2019 2018
Pension plans (1,600) (1,080)
Medical and other post-employment benefit plans 22,774 24,289
Net benefit liability 21,174 23,209
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
14,011 | (11,662) | (7,751) |  | (5,402)
44,460 | – | – |  | 44,460
|  |  |  |
– | – | 94 |  | 94
– | – | 26,051 |  | 26,051
– | – | 9,670 |  | 9,670
(454) | 27 | 8 |  | (419)
(1,112) | 1,121 | (196) |  | (187)
121,991 | 12,660 | 40,934 |  | 175,585
|
(1,600) |
22,774 |
21,174 |
[Page 182]
180 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
20. Post-employment benefit obligations continued
The status of Saudi Aramco’s pension and other post-employment defined benefit plans is as follows:
Pension benefits Other benefits
2019 2018 2019 2018
Net benefit obligation by funding:
Present value of funded obligations 59,824 52,023 87,090 78,548
Fair value of plan assets (67,156) (58,376) (73,136) (60,758)
Benefit (surplus)/deficit (7,332) (6,353) 13,954 17,790
Present value of unfunded obligations 5,732 5,273 8,820 6,499
Net benefit (asset)/liability (1,600) (1,080) 22,774 24,289
Change in benefit obligations:
Benefit obligations, January 1 57,296 54,837 85,047 98,741
Current service cost 3,004 3,270 1,924 2,303
Interest cost 2,453 2,010 3,720 3,698
Past service credit (8) (4) – (1,016)
Remeasurement 6,481 (3,280) 6,754 (17,431)
Plan participants’ contribution 105 113 – –
Benefits paid (3,563) (3,330) (1,804) (1,725)
Settlements (274) – – –
Acquisitions (Note 33) 131 3,668 94 109
Foreign currency translation and other (69) 12 175 368
Benefit obligations, December 31 65,556 57,296 95,910 85,047
Change in plan assets:
Fair value of plan assets January 1 (58,376) (53,726) (60,758) (61,661)
Interest income (2,475) (1,905) (2,696) (2,378)
Remeasurement (6,604) 195 (9,785) 6,960
Employer contributions (3,480) (3,330) (1,699) (5,404)
Benefits paid 3,563 3,330 1,804 1,725
Settlements 274 – – –
Acquisitions (Note 33) (56) (3,023) – –
Foreign currency translation and other (2) 83 (2) –
Fair value of plan assets, December 31 (67,156) (58,376) (73,136) (60,758)
Net benefit (asset)/liability at December 31 (1,600) (1,080) 22,774 24,289
The weighted average duration of the pension benefit obligations is 13 years at December 31, 2019 and 11 years at December 31, 2018. The
weighted average duration of the other benefit obligations is 21 years at December 31, 2019 and 19 years at December 31, 2018.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
| 52,023
(58,376) |  |
59,824 |  |  | 87,090
(67,156) |  |  | (73,136)
(7,332) | (6,353)
5,273 |  | 13,954
5,732 |  |  | 8,820
(1,600) | (1,080) |  | 22,774
| 54,837
3,270
2,010
(4)
(3,280)
113
(3,330)
–
3,668
12 |  |
|  |  |
57,296 |  |  | 85,047
3,004 |  |  | 1,924
2,453 |  |  | 3,720
(8) |  |  | –
6,481 |  |  | 6,754
105 |  |  | –
(3,563) |  |  | (1,804)
(274) |  |  | –
131 |  |  | 94
(69) |  |  | 175
65,556 | 57,296 |  | 95,910
| (53,726)
(1,905)
195
(3,330)
3,330
–
(3,023)
83 |  |
|  |  |
(58,376) |  |  | (60,758)
(2,475) |  |  | (2,696)
(6,604) |  |  | (9,785)
(3,480) |  |  | (1,699)
3,563 |  |  | 1,804
274 |  |  | –
(56) |  |  | –
(2) |  |  | (2)
(67,156) | (58,376) |  | (73,136)
| (1,080) |  |
(1,600) |  |  | 22,774
[Page 183]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 181
20. Post-employment benefit obligations continued
The components of net defined benefit cost, before tax, are primarily recognized in producing and manufacturing, and selling, administrative
and general expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Remeasurements are included in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive
Income. Net defined benefit cost and remeasurements for the years ended December 31 are as follows:
Pension benefits Other benefits
2019 2018 2019 2018
Amounts recognized in net income:
Current service cost 3,004 3,270 1,924 2,303
Past service credit (8) (4) – (1,016)
Net interest (income)/cost (22) 105 1,024 1,320
Other 19 (11) 98 360
2,993 3,360 3,046 2,967
Amounts recognized in other comprehensive income:
Losses (gains) from changes in demographic assumptions 35 83 154 (19)
Losses (gains) from changes in financial assumptions 6,544 (4,316) 14,633 (12,578)
(Gains) losses from changes in experience adjustments (98) 953 (8,033) (4,834)
(Returns) losses on plan assets (excluding interest income) (6,604) 195 (9,785) 6,960
(123) (3,085) (3,031) (10,471)
Net defined benefit loss (gain) before income taxes 2,870 275 15 (7,504)
The present value of the defined benefit obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number
of assumptions, based in part on market conditions. Any changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying amount of the defined benefit
obligations.
The significant assumptions used to determine the present value of the defined benefit obligations for the years ended December 31 are
as follows:
Pension benefits Other benefits
2019 2018 2019 2018
Discount rate 3.2% 4.3% 3.6% 4.4%
Salary growth rate 5.5% 5.5% – –
Annual average medical claim cost, in whole SAR 22,110 22,350
Health care participation rate 90.0% 90.0%
Assumed health care trend rates:
Cost-trend rate 6.0% 7.0%
Rate to which cost-trend is to decline 5.0% 5.0%
Year that the rate reaches the ultimate rate 2021 2021
All the above assumptions are reviewed and updated as necessary as part of the periodic actuarial valuation of the defined benefit obligations.
Saudi Aramco determines the discount rate used to calculate the present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required
to settle the post-employment benefit plan obligations. In determining the appropriate discount rate, Saudi Aramco considers the interest
rates of high-quality corporate bonds in the USA that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related defined benefit obligation.
Mortality assumptions are reviewed regularly and set based on actuarial advice in accordance with best practice and statistics, adjusted to reflect
the experience and improvements to longevity. Relevant life expectancies are as follows:
Saudi Plans U.S. Plans
Life expectancy at age: Male Female Male Female
50 31.6 34.7 33.9 35.9
60 23.0 25.7 24.9 26.7
60 (currently aged 40) 23.0 25.7 26.7 28.4
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
| 3,270
(4)
105
(11) |  |
3,004 |  |  | 1,924
(8) |  |  | –
(22) |  |  | 1,024
19 |  |  | 98
2,993 | 3,360 |  | 3,046
| 83
(4,316)
953
195 |  |
35 |  |  | 154
6,544 |  |  | 14,633
(98) |  |  | (8,033)
(6,604) |  |  | (9,785)
(123) | (3,085) |  | (3,031)
2,870 | 275 |  | 15
|  |  |
|  |  |
3.2% | 4.3%
5.5% |  | 3.6%
5.5% |  |  | –
|  |  | 22,110
|  |  | 90.0%
|  |  |
|  |  | 6.0%
|  |  | 5.0%
|  |  | 2021
[Page 184]
182 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
20. Post-employment benefit obligations continued
The salary growth rate assumption is based on a study of recent years’ salary experience and reflects management’s outlook for future increases.
The annual average medical claim cost assumption is based on medical costs incurred in external medical providers, on behalf of the Company’s
employees and retirees. The health care participation rate considers the historical participation rate, amongst others, derived from the best
available historical data. The assumed health care cost-trend rates reflect Saudi Aramco’s historical experience and management’s expectations
regarding future trends.
The sensitivity of the overall defined benefit obligations to changes in the principal assumptions, keeping all other assumptions constant is
presented below. The sensitivity analysis may not be representative of an actual change in the defined benefit obligations as it is unlikely that
changes in assumptions would occur in isolation from one another.
Impact on
Change in assumption obligation 2019 2018
Ultimate health care cost-trend rates Increase by 0.5% Increase by 9,926 8,066
Decrease by 0.5% Decrease by (8,659) (7,095)
Discount rate other benefits Increase by 0.5% Decrease by (9,195) (7,463)
Decrease by 0.5% Increase by 10,669 8,569
Discount rate pension benefits Increase by 0.5% Decrease by (3,889) (3,011)
Decrease by 0.5% Increase by 4,331 3,315
Salary growth rate Increase by 0.5% Increase by 1,890 1,433
Decrease by 0.5% Decrease by (2,201) (1,646)
Annual average medical claim cost Increase by 5% Increase by 4,463 3,904
Decrease by 5% Decrease by (4,463) (3,896)
Life expectancy Increase by 1 year Increase by 4,245 3,371
Decrease by 1 year Decrease by (4,234) (3,383)
Health care participation rate Increase by 5% Increase by 1,706 1,560
Decrease by 5% Decrease by (1,751) (1,635)
Plan assets consisted of the following:
2019 2018
Cash 2,670 3,008
Time deposits – 68
Equity instruments 39,199 34,433
Investment funds 48,845 42,045
Bonds 48,202 38,520
Sukuk (Shari’a compliant) 1,376 1,060
140,292 119,134
Plan assets are administered under the oversight of the Company and are held and managed by independent trustees or separate entities, in
a manner consistent with fiduciary obligations and principles, acting in the best interest of plan participants. The Company is responsible for
the implementation of Board approved investment policy and making investment recommendations to the legal entities holding the plan assets.
The investment objective is to maximize investment returns consistent with prudent risk over a long-term investment horizon in order to secure
retiree benefits and minimize corporate funding. Plan assets are held separately, solely to pay retiree benefits. Saudi Aramco has no rights to plan
assets. Funded Saudi Plans have the right to transfer assets held in excess of the Plan’s defined benefit obligation to another funded Saudi Plan.
The right to transfer such assets is solely in respect of amounts held in excess of the Plans defined benefit obligations and solely to Plan’s with
defined benefit obligations exceeding the value of assets held.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
[TABLE DATA]
|
9,926 |
(8,659) |
|
(9,195) |
10,669 |
|
(3,889) |
4,331 |
|
1,890 |
(2,201) |
|
4,463 |
(4,463) |
|
4,245 |
(4,234) |
|
1,706 |
(1,751) |
|
2,670 |
– |
39,199 |
48,845 |
48,202 |
1,376 |
140,292 |
[Page 185]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 183
20. Post-employment benefit obligations continued
Through its post-employment benefit plans, Saudi Aramco is exposed to a number of risks including asset volatility, changes in bond yields,
inflation and life expectancy. Investment risk is minimized through diversification of investments among fixed income, equity, and alternative
asset classes. Asset allocation is determined by an asset liability modeling study. The target asset allocation is, approximately, 38% (2018: 36%)
equity instruments, 32% (2018: 32%) debt instruments, and 30% (2018: 32%) alternative assets. Inflation risk is partially offset by equities
inflation and life expectancy risk is borne by Saudi Aramco.
Employer contributions to defined benefit plans are estimated to be SAR 5,997 in 2020. While the Saudi plans are generally not governed by
regulatory minimum funding requirements, the funding objective is to reach full funding of the larger plans only. Saudi Aramco pays annual
contributions equal to the cost of accrual on a Board approved cash funding basis. Asset outperformance is expected to meet the shortfall
between assets and the assessed liabilities within a reasonable period. Funding for the U.S. plans is recommended by the actuary in order
to meet Saudi Aramco’s funding strategy to meet benefit plan expenses using PPA rules. Other plans follow local regulation or contractual
obligations to meet minimum funding requirements.
In addition to the above plans, Saudi Aramco maintains defined contribution plans for which Saudi Aramco’s legal or constructive obligation
for these plans is limited to the contributions. The costs of the defined contribution plans, which are included principally within producing and
manufacturing, and selling, administrative and general expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income, are SAR 1,028 and SAR 926 for the
years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively (Note 30).
21. Provisions
Asset
retirement Environmental Other Total
January 1, 2018 12,134 796 1,067 13,997
Revision to estimate 886 – (234) 652
Additional provisions 418 177 308 903
Unwinding of discount (Note 19) 320 (10) – 310
Amounts charged against provisions (51) (114) (91) (256)
December 31, 2018 13,707 849 1,050 15,606
Revision to estimate (748) 45 (154) (857)
Additional provisions 392 106 467 965
Unwinding of discount (Note 19) 412 28 – 440
Amounts charged against provisions (47) (91) (31) (169)
December 31, 2019 13,716 937 1,332 15,985
These provisions consist primarily of asset retirement provisions for the future plugging and abandonment of oil and natural gas wells and the
decommissioning of certain Downstream assets. The environmental provision is for the remediation of ground water and soil contamination.
Payments to settle these provisions will occur on an ongoing basis and will continue over the lives of the operating assets, which can exceed
50 years for the time when it is necessary to abandon oil and natural gas wells. The amount and timing of settlement in respect of these
provisions are uncertain and dependent on various factors that are not always within management’s control.
22. Trade and other payables
2019 2018
Trade payables 38,629 32,897
Accrued materials and services 24,544 26,393
Amounts due to related parties (Note 32(b)) 7,587 6,761
Other accruals 7,471 6,235
78,231 72,286
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
(748) | 45 | (154) |  | (857)
392 | 106 | 467 |  | 965
412 | 28 | – |  | 440
(47) | (91) | (31) |  | (169)
13,716 | 937 | 1,332 |  | 15,985
|
38,629 |
24,544 |
7,587 |
7,471 |
78,231 |
[Page 186]
184 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
23. Revenue
2019 2018
Revenue from contracts with customers 1,096,444 1,192,965
Movement between provisional and final prices 5,650 (2,270)
Other revenue 3,602 3,681
1,105,696 1,194,376
Other revenue:
Services provided to:
Government agencies (Note 32(a)) 1,058 731
Third parties 510 626
Joint ventures and associates (Note 32(a)) 266 311
Freight 161 101
Other 1,607 1,912
3,602 3,681
Revenue from contracts with customers is measured at a transaction price agreed under the contract and the payment is due within 10 to 90 days
from the invoice date depending on specific terms of the contract.
Transaction prices are not adjusted for the time value of money as Saudi Aramco does not have any contracts where the period between the
transfer of product to the customer and payment by the customer exceeds one year.
Disaggregation of revenue from contracts with customers
Saudi Aramco’s revenue from contracts with customers according to product type and source is as follows:
2019
Upstream Downstream Corporate Total
Crude oil 645,499 22,049 – 667,548
Refined and chemical products – 369,478 – 369,478
Natural gas and NGLs 57,649 1,769 – 59,418
Revenue from contracts with customers 703,148 393,296 – 1,096,444
Movement between provisional and final prices 5,405 245 – 5,650
Other revenue 697 1,558 1,347 3,602
External revenue 709,250 395,099 1,347 1,105,696
2018
Upstream Downstream Corporate Total
Crude oil 720,010 8,268 – 728,278
Refined and chemical products – 392,882 – 392,882
Natural gas and NGLs 69,649 2,156 – 71,805
Revenue from contracts with customers 789,659 403,306 – 1,192,965
Movement between provisional and final prices (1,756) (514) – (2,270)
Other revenue 569 1,783 1,329 3,681
External revenue 788,472 404,575 1,329 1,194,376
Revenue from contracts with customers includes local sales at Kingdom regulated prices as follows:
2019 2018
Crude oil 2,745 1,847
Refined and chemical products 56,777 55,790
Natural gas and NGLs 15,341 16,037
74,863 73,674
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
[TABLE DATA]
|
1,096,444 |
5,650 |
3,602 |
1,105,696 |
|
|
1,058 |
510 |
266 |
161 |
1,607 |
3,602 |
|  |  |  |
645,499 | 22,049 | – |  | 667,548
– | 369,478 | – |  | 369,478
57,649 | 1,769 | – |  | 59,418
703,148 | 393,296 | – |  | 1,096,444
|  |  |  |
5,405 | 245 | – |  | 5,650
697 | 1,558 | 1,347 |  | 3,602
709,250 | 395,099 | 1,347 |  | 1,105,696
|
2,745 |
56,777 |
15,341 |
74,863 |
[Page 187]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 185
24. Finance and other income
2019 2018
Interest income on time deposits and loans receivable 5,359 2,777
Gain on remeasurement of existing interest in equity investments (Note 33) 1,278 870
Dividend income from investments in securities 509 143
Investment income 175 63
Gain on derivative transactions 6 4
Other 24 8
7,351 3,865
25. Non-cash transactions in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Investing activities during 2019 include additions to right-of-use assets of SAR 9,670 (2018: finance lease assets of SAR 8,195), subordinated
shareholder loans and trade receivables with a joint venture that were converted to equity of SAR 1,706 and SAR 1,098 (2018: SAR 1,915 and
SAR 583), respectively, and asset retirement provisions of SAR 50 (2018: SAR 1,533).
26. Commitments
(a) Capital commitments
Capital expenditures contracted for but not yet incurred were SAR 154,181 and SAR 90,034 at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
In addition, leases contracted for but not yet commenced were SAR 7,467 at December 31, 2019.
(b) Operating leases
Prior to the adoption of IFRS 16, Leases, effective January 1, 2019, non-cancellable operating leases on drilling rigs, tankers, real estate,
transportation equipment, light industrial equipment and office equipment were classified as operating leases. The leases have varying terms,
escalation clauses and renewal rights. Rates are generally fixed at the contract date. The approximate minimum payments on the non-cancellable
operating leases at December 31, 2018 were as follows:
2019 2018
No later than one year – 8,078
Later than one year and no later than five years – 15,625
Later than five years – 11,862
– 35,565
From January 1, 2019, Saudi Aramco has recognized right-of-use assets for these leases, except for short-term and low-value leases. Refer to
Note 2(c)(i) and Note 5 for further information.
(c) IMIC
In 2017, Saudi Aramco Development Company (“SADCO”), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and Lamprell plc (“Lamprell”), Bahri and
Korea Shipbuilding and Offshore Engineering (“KSOE”), formerly known as Hyundai Heavy Industries, formed a company, IMIC, in which SADCO
owns 50.1%, Lamprell owns 20%, Bahri owns 19.9% and KSOE owns 10%. The principal activities of IMIC are the development, operation,
and maintenance of a maritime yard under construction by the Government, as well as, the design, manufacture, maintenance and repair of
ships and rigs. The maritime yard will be divided into four main zones and completion of the construction of the individual zones will vary but is
expected to be partially completed and operational by 2021. SADCO has committed to fund IMIC up to SAR 1,316 through equity contributions.
At December 31, 2019, SAR 555 (2018: SAR 555) has been drawn down by IMIC.
(d) Saudi Aramco Rowan Offshore Drilling Company (“ARO Drilling”)
In 2017, SADCO and Rowan Rex Limited formed a company, ARO Drilling (Note 36), to provide offshore drilling services to the Company. In 2018,
Mukamala Oil Field Services Limited (“MOFSL”) was incorporated as a subsidiary of SADCO and all the investment and related commitments of ARO
Drilling were transferred to MOFSL by way of a Novation Agreement. MOFSL has committed to invest SAR 2,494 through equity and shareholder
loans, of which SAR 2,453 (2018: SAR 2,453) has been drawn down at December 31, 2019. In addition, Saudi Aramco has committed to lease
20 offshore rigs over a ten-year period beginning in 2021 for an estimated value of SAR 52,489.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|
5,359 |
1,278 |
509 |
175 |
6 |
24 |
7,351 |
|
– |
– |
– |
– |
[Page 188]
186 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
26. Commitments continued
(e) Saudi Aramco Nabors Drilling Company (“SANAD”)
In 2017, SADCO and Nabors International Netherlands BV formed a company, SANAD (Note 36), to provide onshore drilling services to the
Company. In 2018, MOFSL was incorporated as a subsidiary of SADCO and all the investment and related commitments of SANAD were
transferred to MOFSL by way of a Novation Agreement. Saudi Aramco has committed to lease 50 onshore rigs over a ten-year period beginning
in 2021 for an estimated value of SAR 24,263.
(f) Arabian Rig Manufacturing Company (‘‘ARM’’)
In June 2018, SADCO and NOV Downhole Eurasia Limited formed a company, ARM (Note 7), to provide onshore land drilling manufacturing,
equipment and services to SANAD and the Middle East and North Africa region. Saudi Aramco committed to invest SAR 225, of which, SAR 9
is invested at December 31, 2019 (2018: nil). In addition, SADCO has guaranteed the purchase of 50 onshore rigs over a ten-year period beginning
in 2021 for an estimated value of SAR 6,754, and has the option to cancel the onshore rig orders for a maximum financial exposure of SAR 1,358.
(g) Other
(i) I n order to comply with past Government directives, the Company expects to sell portions of its equity in Saudi Aramco Total Refining and
Petrochemical Company and Yanbu Aramco Sinopec Refining Company Ltd. (Note 37) through a public offering of shares in Saudi Arabia.
Also in order to comply with a past Government directive, Excellent Performance Chemical Company (“EPCC”), a wholly owned subsidiary
of the Company, expects to sell portions of its equity in Sadara (Note 27(a)) through a public offering of shares in Saudi Arabia.
(ii) S audi Aramco is committed to comply with the Government directive to guarantee that Saudi Aramco Total Refining and Petrochemical
Company and Yanbu Aramco Sinopec Refining Company Ltd. shall spend a total of SAR 750 over a ten year period ending December 31, 2025
on social responsibility programs. At December 31, 2019, SAR 461 (2018: SAR 641) remains to be spent.
(iii) S audi Aramco has commitments of SAR 384 (2018: SAR 370) to invest in private equity investments both inside and outside the Kingdom.
Such commitments can be called on demand.
(iv) S audi Aramco has commitments of SAR 58 (2018: SAR 56) to fund additional loans and acquire additional unlisted equity investments of
certain small to mid-sized enterprises in the Kingdom. The commitments can be called by the enterprises upon meeting certain conditions.
27. Contingencies
Saudi Aramco has contingent assets and liabilities with respect to certain disputed matters including claims by and against contractors and
lawsuits and arbitrations involving a variety of issues. These contingencies arise in the ordinary course of business. It is not anticipated that
any material adjustments will result from these contingencies.
Saudi Aramco also has contingent liabilities with respect to the following:
(a) Sadara
In 2011, EPCC and Dow Saudi Arabia Holding B.V. (together to be referred to as the “Founding Shareholders”) signed a shareholder agreement
with a term of 99 years to construct and operate a fully-integrated chemicals complex at Jubail II Industrial City in Saudi Arabia (“the Project”).
Shortly thereafter, the Founding Shareholders formed Sadara to execute the Project. In May 2019, Saudi Aramco committed to increase the
total financing facility provided to Sadara from SAR 25,125 to SAR 32,035. As of December 31, 2019, SAR 28,362 (2018: SAR 25,125) has been
drawn down.
In 2013, Sadara entered into definitive agreements with certain export credit agencies and commercial banks for approximately SAR 39,505
of project financing of which approximately SAR 34,009 (2018: SAR 36,566) was outstanding at December 31, 2019. Saudi Aramco provided
guarantees for 65% of such facilities, which will be released upon declaration of project completion on or before December 31, 2020. In
December 2018, Sadara successfully satisfied all requirements of the Creditor’s Reliability Test (“CRT”) in its initial attempt. Completion of the
CRT is, among other conditions, a key condition to achieve project completion.
In 2013, Sadara conducted a project Sukuk issuance in Saudi Arabia for approximately SAR 7,500 with a final maturity in December 2028. Saudi
Aramco provided a guarantee for 65% of the Sukuk on a limited recourse basis, which may be called at any time, upon the occurrence of certain
trigger events prior to the project completion date. The Sukuk proceeds were utilized for funding the Project of which approximately SAR 6,478
(2018: SAR 7,178) was outstanding at December 31, 2019.
With respect to Sadara’s fuel and feed-stock allocation, the Company has provided two letters of credit to the Ministry of Energy for SAR 169
(2018: SAR 169) and SAR 225 (2018: SAR 225) to construct epoxy plants and for the development of projects to support conversion industries
in the Kingdom, respectively.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
[Page 189]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 187
27. Contingencies continued
(b) Petro Rabigh
In March 2015, the two founding shareholders of Petro Rabigh, the Company and Sumitomo Chemical Co. Ltd., concluded external long-term
debt financing arrangements with lenders on behalf of Petro Rabigh for the Rabigh II Project (“the Project”) in the amount of SAR 19,380 for
which the two shareholders provided guarantees for their equal share of the debt financing until project completion expected in 2020. As of
December 31, 2019, SAR 17,909 (2018: SAR 19,380) is outstanding. The external debt financing is expected to provide approximately 50%
of total capital requirements of SAR 38,689 (2018: SAR 36,086) for the Project with the remaining financing to be provided by a rights offering
of additional shares by Petro Rabigh and other sources.
The founding shareholders also arranged an equity bridge loan of SAR 11,250 with equal share guarantees provided to meet the equity
financing requirements until the equity rights offering. The guarantees will continue until July 1, 2020. Petro Rabigh has drawn down SAR 11,250
(2018: SAR 8,888) of this loan as of December 31, 2019.
28. Derivative instruments and hedging activities
Saudi Aramco uses interest rate swap contracts to manage exposure to interest rate risk resulting from borrowings. These hedges are designated
as cash flow hedges. Saudi Aramco also engages in hedging activities through the use of currency forward contracts in relation to firm
commitments under procurement contracts and transactions for foreign currency payrolls. These hedges are designated as fair value hedges.
Further, Saudi Aramco uses short-term commodity swap contracts to manage exposure to price fluctuations.
The notional amounts of currency forward contracts and interest rate swap contracts designated as hedging instruments and outstanding
commodity swap contracts are as follows:
2019 2018
Interest rate swaps 12,911 14,404
Commodity swap contracts 17,370 24,146
Currency forward contracts 8,452 15,821
38,733 54,371
29. Purchases
2019 2018
Refined products and chemicals 157,438 160,045
Crude oil 67,732 41,131
225,170 201,176
Purchases primarily consist of refined products, chemicals and crude oil purchased from third parties for use in Downstream operations and to
meet demand for products in the Kingdom when it exceeds Saudi Aramco’s production of the relevant product. Saudi Aramco also purchases
products from third parties in certain markets where it is more cost effective compared to procuring them from other business units.
30. Employee benefit expense
2019 2018
Salaries and wages 32,528 29,849
Social security costs 1,967 1,804
Post-retirement benefits (Note 20):
Defined benefit plans 6,039 6,327
Defined contribution plans 1,028 926
Share-based compensation (Note 17) 33 –
41,595 38,906
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|
12,911 |
17,370 |
8,452 |
38,733 |
|
157,438 |
67,732 |
225,170 |
|
32,528 |
1,967 |
|
6,039 |
1,028 |
33 |
41,595 |
[Page 190]
188 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
31. Payments to the Government by Saudi Arabian Oil Company
2019 2018
Income taxes (Note 8(c)) 149,780 180,225
Royalties 170,256 213,514
Dividends (Note 34) 274,388 217,500
32. Related party transactions
(a) Transactions
2019 2018
Joint ventures:
Revenue from sales 7,485 4,159
Other revenue (Note 23) 83 30
Interest income 30 49
Purchases 544 –
Service expenses 19 26
Associates:
Revenue from sales 36,866 39,356
Other revenue (Note 23) 183 281
Interest income 165 113
Purchases 36,960 39,480
Service expenses 188 195
Government and semi-Government agencies:
Revenue from sales 45,079 50,111
Other income related to sales 131,089 152,641
Other revenue (Note 23) 1,058 731
Purchases 11,606 3,394
Service expenses 409 323
Acquisition of treasury shares (Note 16) 3,750 –
Sale of partial interest in joint venture (Note 7) 14 –
Goods are purchased and sold according to supply agreements in force. Note 27 includes additional information on loans to a joint venture and
an associate.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
[TABLE DATA]
|
149,780 |
170,256 |
274,388 |
|
|
7,485 |
83 |
30 |
544 |
19 |
|
|
36,866 |
183 |
165 |
36,960 |
188 |
|
|
45,079 |
131,089 |
1,058 |
11,606 |
409 |
3,750 |
14 |
[Page 191]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 189
32. Related party transactions continued
(b) Balances
2019 2018
Joint ventures:
Other assets and receivables (Note 9) 1,609 4
Trade receivables 836 176
Interest receivable 30 –
Trade and other payable (Note 22) 15 –
Associates:
Other assets and receivables (Note 9) 3,326 3,296
Trade receivables 8,715 10,388
Trade and other payables (Note 22) 4,553 4,492
Government and semi-Government agencies:
Trade receivables 5,985 8,764
Due from the Government (Note 13) 36,781 48,864
Trade and other payables (Note 22) 3,019 2,269
Borrowings (Note 19) 5,366 6,119
Sales to and receivables from Government and semi-Government agencies are made on specific terms within the relevant regulatory framework
in the Kingdom.
(c) Compensation of key management personnel
Key management personnel of Saudi Aramco included directors and senior executive management. The compensation paid or payable to key
management for services is shown below:
2019 2018
Short-term employee benefits 63 57
Post-employment benefits 31 27
Other long-term benefits 7 10
Termination benefits – 17
101 111
(d) Other transactions with key management personnel
Other than as set out in Note 32(c), there were no reportable transactions between Saudi Aramco and members of the key management personnel
and their close family members during the year ended December 31, 2019 (2018: nil).
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|
|
1,609 |
836 |
30 |
15 |
|
|
3,326 |
8,715 |
4,553 |
|
|
5,985 |
36,781 |
3,019 |
5,366 |
|
63 |
31 |
7 |
– |
101 |
[Page 192]
190 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
33. Investments in affiliates
(a) Investments in subsidiaries
(i) Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (“SABIC”)
On March 27, 2019, the Company announced that it had entered into a Share Purchase Agreement with the Public Investment Fund (“PIF”)
to acquire the PIF’s 70% equity interest in SABIC for total consideration of SAR 259,125 ($69,100), which is equivalent to SAR 123.39 per share.
In February 2020, the Company received final unconditional approval from all remaining jurisdictions in which pre-notification antitrust filings are
required. The closing of the proposed transaction remains subject to the remaining customary closing conditions contained in the Share Purchase
Agreement. SABIC is headquartered in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia and operates in over 50 countries with approximately 34,000 employees. SABIC
produces ethylene, ethylene glycol, methanol, methyl tertiary butyl ether (“MTBE”), polyethylene and engineering plastics and their derivatives,
among other products. The Company believes that purchasing a majority interest in SABIC will advance its strategy to increase the proportion
of petrochemicals production in its Downstream portfolio, capture additional value and support the Company’s Downstream growth ambitions.
The acquisition will result in the Company obtaining control of SABIC. The Share Purchase Agreement provided that the purchase price for the
acquisition would be paid on the closing date in the form of a cash payment equal to 50% of the purchase price (to be adjusted for certain
expenses) and a seller loan in an amount equal to 50% of the purchase price. On October 6, 2019, the Company and the PIF agreed to amend
the payment terms to provide that, on the closing date, 36% of the purchase price (to be adjusted for certain expenses) will be paid in the form
of cash and 64% of the purchase price will be paid in the form of a seller loan. In addition, SAR 9,375 ($2,500) in loan charges will be paid
by Saudi Aramco, including a SAR 1,875 ($500) loan charge paid in cash on the closing date. The seller loan will be secured by four separate
promissory notes issued by Saudi Aramco in favor of the PIF and the balance of the loan charges will be secured by five additional promissory
notes. These amounts will be payable over a period from September 30, 2020 to September 30, 2025 and are currently intended to be paid in
a phased manner through cash from operations, external debt financing or a combination thereof.
(ii) Saudi Aramco Shell Refinery Company
On September 18, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Shell Saudi Arabia Limited’s 50% equity interest for cash consideration
of SAR 2,366. As a result of this transaction, the Company has become the sole shareholder of the Saudi Aramco Jubail Refinery Company
(“SASREF”). SASREF owns and operates a 305,000 barrel per day refinery that includes a hydrocracker unit, a visbreaker unit and a thermal
gas-oil unit. Located in the Kingdom in Jubail, the refinery began commercial operations in 1986 and currently produces naphtha, high-sulfur
fuel oil, jet fuel and diesel fuel. This acquisition is in line with Saudi Aramco’s strategy of expanding its Downstream portfolio, and strengthening
its capabilities across the energy value chain. On increasing its ownership, Saudi Aramco remeasured its investment to fair value and recognized
a gain of SAR 1,278, which is reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Income within finance and other income.
The transaction was accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting which requires the assets acquired and liabilities assumed to
be recognized at their fair value as of the acquisition date. If the acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2019, the consolidated revenue of
Saudi Aramco would have been an additional SAR 394 and net income would have been an additional SAR 47. In determining these amounts,
management has assumed that the fair value adjustments that arose on the acquisition date would have been the same if the acquisition
occurred on the first day of the accounting period.
The preliminary fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities have been determined by management, assisted by an independent valuer, as part
of the purchase price allocation process, which has not been concluded.
The following table summarizes the estimated goodwill and fair values of SASREF’s assets and liabilities acquired on September 18, 2019:
Cash and cash equivalents 1,233
Trade accounts receivable and other current assets 3,938
Inventories 1,260
Property, plant and equipment 5,461
Intangible assets 57
Other non-current assets 385
Trade and other payables (6,249)
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities (866)
Deferred tax liabilities (528)
Employee benefit obligations (298)
Lease liabilities (188)
Total identifiable net assets and liabilities at fair value 4,205
Goodwill 527
Total consideration 4,732
Acquisition date fair value of previously held interest (2,366)
Purchase consideration 2,366
Acquisition and transaction costs of SAR 2 for the year ended December 31, 2019 were expensed as selling, administrative and general in the
Consolidated Statement of Income. The post-acquisition revenue of SAR 39 and net loss of SAR 925 is included in the consolidated statement
of comprehensive income.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
[Page 193]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 191
33. Investments in affiliates continued
(iii) Investment in Motiva Chemicals LLC (“Motiva Chemicals”)
On October 31, 2019, Motiva Enterprises LLC (“Motiva”), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, acquired 100% of the equity interest
in Flint Hills Resources Port Arthur LLC which was immediately re-named as Motiva Chemicals. Motiva Chemicals was acquired for total cash
consideration of SAR 7,090. Motiva Chemicals owns and operates a chemical plant located in Port Arthur, Texas, comprised of a mixed feed
cracker, a cyclohexane unit, a benzene unit, NGL and ethylene pipelines and storage facilities. The acquisition extends Motiva’s logistics
capabilities, provides an early entry into petrochemicals and creates the opportunity to further improve planned chemicals projects.
The transaction was accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting which requires the assets acquired and liabilities assumed
to be recognized at their fair value as of the acquisition date. If the acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2019, the consolidated revenue
of Saudi Aramco would have been an additional SAR 2,928 and net loss would have been an additional SAR 28.
Saudi Aramco has engaged an independent valuer in order to determine the fair value of the assets and liabilities of Motiva Chemicals as part
of the purchase price allocation, which had not been concluded as at December 31, 2019. The preliminary fair values of the identifiable assets
and liabilities of Motiva Chemicals as at the date of acquisition are as follows:
Cash and cash equivalents 11
Accounts receivable and other assets 229
Inventories 266
Property, plant and equipment 6,263
Intangible assets 544
Trade and other payables (184)
Post-employment benefit obligations and provisions (39)
Total identifiable net assets at fair value/purchase consideration 7,090
Acquisition and transaction costs of SAR 13 were expensed as selling, administrative and general in the Consolidated Statement of Income for
the year ended December 31, 2019. The post-acquisition revenue of SAR 372 and net loss of SAR 151 is included in the Consolidated Statement
of Comprehensive Income.
(iv) ARLANXEO Holding B.V. (“ARLANXEO”)
On December 31, 2018, ARLANXEO, previously a joint venture between Saudi Aramco and LANXESS Deutschland GmbH (“LANXESS”),
became a wholly owned subsidiary as a result of Saudi Aramco acquiring the remaining 50% equity interest in ARLANXEO. The initial 50% share
acquisition was made on April 1, 2016. The transaction comprised the exchange of the ownership shares of LANXESS, including all the rights and
obligations attached to the shares, and cash payments to LANXESS in the amount of SAR 6,106. As a result of this transaction, Saudi Aramco
obtained the sole ownership of ARLANXEO, which consists of all the 15 subsidiaries (the full ownership of 14 subsidiaries and a 50% non-wholly
owned interest in ARLANXEO-TSRC) that have 20 manufacturing sites in nine countries. This acquisition is in line with Saudi Aramco’s strategy
of enabling further diversification of the downstream portfolio, and strengthening its capabilities across the energy and chemicals value chain.
As part of this transaction, Saudi Aramco’s equity investment in ARLANXEO of SAR 4,943, previously classified as Investment in joint ventures
and associates in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, was remeasured to fair value which resulted in a gain of SAR 870 recognized in finance and
other income for the year ended December 31, 2018.
The transaction was accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting which requires the assets acquired and liabilities assumed to
be recognized at their fair value as of the acquisition date. If the acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2018, the consolidated revenue of
Saudi Aramco would have been an additional SAR 14,288 and net income would have been reduced by share of net loss of SAR 98. In
determining these amounts, management has assumed that the fair value adjustments that arose on the acquisition date would have been
the same if the acquisition occurred on first day of accounting period.
The fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities have been determined by management, assisted by an independent valuer, as part of the
purchase price allocation process, which has been concluded.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 194]
192 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
33. Investments in affiliates continued
The following table summarizes the goodwill and the fair values of ARLANXEO's assets and liabilities acquired on December 31, 2018:
Cash and cash equivalents 528
Accounts receivable and other assets 2,983
Inventories 3,112
Property, plant and equipment 9,725
Intangible assets 268
Trade and other payables (2,396)
Borrowings (511)
Post-employment benefit obligations and provisions (1,038)
Other liabilities (1,055)
Total identifiable net assets at fair value 11,616
Non-controlling interest (53)
Acquisition date fair value of previously held interest (5,813)
Fair value of additional interest acquired on December 31, 2018 5,750
Goodwill 191
Other adjustments 165
Net purchase consideration 6,106
Acquisition and transaction costs of nil and SAR 10 were expensed as selling, administrative and general in the Consolidated Statement of
Income for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
(b) Investment in joint operation
On March 28, 2018, Aramco Overseas Holdings Coöperatief U.A. (“AOHC”), a wholly owned subsidiary of The Company, acquired from Petronas
Refinery and Petrochemical Corporation Sdn. Bhd. (“PETRONAS”) a 50% voting interest in Pengerang Refining Company Sdn. Bhd. (“PRefChem
Refining”), and also acquired from Petronas Chemicals Group Berhad, a PETRONAS publicly traded affiliate, a 50% participation in Pengerang
Petrochemical Company Sdn. Bhd. (“PRefChem Petrochemical”). The total cash consideration of the transactions amounted to SAR 3,534.
In addition, Saudi Aramco had acquired 50% of the subordinated shareholder loan of SAR 791 from PRefChem Petrochemical. PRefChem Refining
and PRefChem Petrochemical own certain refinery and steam cracker assets under construction which will be dedicated to the production of
refining and petrochemicals products and are scheduled to commence commercial operations in 2020. Saudi Aramco has performed an assessment
of the accounting treatment for these investments under IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements, and determined that the two investments are joint operations.
Saudi Aramco had engaged an independent valuer in order to determine the fair values of the assets and liabilities of PRefChem Refining and
PRefChem Petrochemical as part of the purchase price allocation. Based on the valuation, the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired
on March 28, 2018 were as follows:
Construction-in-progress (Note 5) 36,345
Cash and cash equivalents 1,744
Other non-current assets and liabilities, net (1,541)
Net working capital (1,212)
Short-term bank financing (28,136)
Total identifiable net assets at fair value 7,200
Saudi Aramco’s 50% share 3,600
Other adjustments (66)
Purchase consideration 3,534
Acquisition and transaction costs of nil and SAR 128 were expensed as selling, administrative and general in the Consolidated Statement of
Income for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
[Page 195]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 193
33. Investments in affiliates continued
(c) Investments in joint ventures and associates
(i) Investment in Tas’helat Marketing Company (“TMC”)
On June 17, 2019, Saudi Aramco Retail Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and Total Marketing S.A., a subsidiary of Total
S.A., each acquired a 50% interest in Tas’helat Marketing Company (“TMC”) for a total of SAR 770. TMC operates a network of 270 retail
service stations under the “Sahel” brand name and 73 convenience stores across the Kingdom. The two partners, over the next several years,
will invest SAR 2,800 in upgrading the existing retail facilities and rebranding an equal number of the retail service stations with the two
partners’ brand names.
The purchasers have engaged an independent valuer in order to determine the fair value of the assets and liabilities of TMC as part of the
purchase price allocation, which had not been concluded as at December 31, 2019.
The preliminary fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of TMC as of the date of acquisition are as follows:
Cash and cash equivalents 26
Accounts receivable and other assets 328
Inventories 44
Property, plant and equipment 362
Intangible assets 78
Trade and other payables (28)
Borrowings (128)
Post-employment benefit obligations and provisions (24)
Other liabilities (286)
Total identifiable net assets at fair value 372
Saudi Aramco’s 50% share 186
Goodwill 199
Purchase consideration 385
Acquisition and transaction costs of SAR 4 were expensed as selling, administrative, and general in the Consolidated Statement of Income for
the year ended December 31, 2019.
(ii) Hyundai Oilbank
On December 17, 2019, Aramco Overseas Company B.V. (“AOC”), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, acquired a 17% equity interest in
Hyundai Oilbank, a subsidiary of Hyundai Heavy Industries Holdings, for SAR 4,414 with an option to acquire an additional 2.9% within five years
of the closing date. Hyundai Oilbank is a private oil refining company in South Korea established in 1964. The business portfolio of Hyundai Oilbank
and its subsidiaries includes oil refining, base oil, petrochemicals, and a network of gas stations. The investment in Hyundai Oilbank supports
Saudi Aramco’s Downstream growth strategy of expanding its global footprint in key markets in profitable integrated refining, chemicals and
marketing businesses which enable Saudi Aramco to place crude oil and leverage its trading capabilities.
The carrying value of Hyundai Oilbank is recorded as an investment in associate (Note 7). Saudi Aramco has engaged an independent valuer in
order to determine the fair values of the assets and liabilities of Hyundai Oilbank as part of the purchase price allocation, which has not yet been
concluded. Based on a preliminary purchase price allocation, the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Hyundai Oilbank as at the date
of acquisition are as follows:
Cash and cash equivalents 1,556
Trade and other receivables 5,157
Inventories 8,089
Other assets 649
Investments in affiliates 1,913
Property, plant and equipment 25,781
Trade and other payables (9,611)
Borrowings (12,758)
Other liabilities (1,684)
Total identifiable net assets at fair value 19,092
Non-controlling interest (1,688)
Total identifiable net assets attributable to equity owners 17,404
Saudi Aramco's 17% share 2,960
Call option 206
Intangibles and goodwill 1,248
Purchase consideration 4,414
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 196]
194 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
33. Investments in affiliates continued
(iii) Saudi Engines Manufacturing Company (“SEMC”)
On May 19, 2019, Saudi Aramco Development Company (“SADCO”), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, Korea Shipbuilding and
Offshore Engineering (“KSOE”), and the Saudi Arabian Industrial Investment Company (“Dussur”) concluded an agreement to establish an
affiliate to form an engine manufacturing and aftersales facility in the Kingdom. SADCO will own 55% of the affiliate, expected to be named
Saudi Engines Manufacturing Company (“SEMC”), while KSOE and Dussur will own 30% and 15%, respectively. SADCO is a 25% shareholder
of Dussur. Total investment in SEMC will be up to SAR 646 of which SADCO’s share will be up to SAR 355. Additionally, under the agreement,
KSOE will have the option to sell up to 20% of the total investment in the affiliate for up to SAR 129, representing KSOE’s cost, back to SADCO.
The option expires on November 19, 2020.
(iv) Investment in Juniper Ventures of Texas LLC (“Juniper”)
On December 6, 2018, Motiva acquired a fuel retail business for the amount of SAR 331 which was immediately contributed to the formation
of the joint venture, Juniper. Upon completion of the transaction, Motiva owns 60% interest in Juniper which operates certain retail gas stations
and convenience stores in the state of Texas, USA. The fair values of the net identifiable assets and liabilities acquired were determined to be
equal to the purchase consideration and no goodwill was recorded from the transaction. The carrying value of Juniper is recorded as an investment
in joint ventures (Note 7).
34. Dividends
Dividends declared and paid on ordinary shares are as follows:
SAR per share
2019 2018 2019 2018
Quarter:
March1 123,750 71,250 0.62 0.37
June 50,213 48,750 0.25 0.24
September 50,212 48,750 0.25 0.24
December 50,213 48,750 0.25 0.24
Total paid (Note 31) 274,388 217,500 1.37 1.09
Dividend declared in December, paid in January 2020 35,475 – 0.18 –
Total declared 309,863 217,500 1.55 1.09
Dividend declared March 12, 2020 14,760 – 0.07 –
1. Out of SAR 123,750 declared in March 2019, SAR 37,500 was paid in April 2019.
The consolidated financial statements do not reflect a dividend to shareholders of SAR 14,760, which was approved in March 2020. This
dividend will be deducted from unappropriated retained earnings in the year ending December 31, 2020. A total of SAR 200,873 in dividends
were declared in 2019 and 2020 that relate to 2019 results.
35. Earnings per share
The following table reflects the net income and number of shares used in the earnings per share calculations:
2019 2018
Net income attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the Company 330,816 416,196
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (in millions) (Note 2(cc)) 199,993 200,000
Earnings per share for net income attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the Company (in Saudi Riyal) 1.65 2.08
Potential ordinary shares during the year ended December 31, 2019 related to employees’ share-based compensation in respect of a grant that
was awarded to the Company’s eligible employees under the plan terms of the grant (Note 17). The grant did not have a significant dilution
effect on basic earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2019. There were no issuances involving potential ordinary shares for the
year ended December 31, 2018.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
| 71,250
48,750
48,750
48,750 |  |
123,750 |  |  | 0.62
50,213 |  |  | 0.25
50,212 |  |  | 0.25
50,213 |  |  | 0.25
274,388 | 217,500
– |  | 1.37
35,475 |  |  | 0.18
309,863 | 217,500 |  | 1.55
|  |  |
14,760 |  |  | 0.07
|
330,816 |
199,993 |
1.65 |
[Page 197]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 195
36. Subsidiaries of Saudi Arabian Oil Company
Interest income
from
Conventional conventional
Place of Conventional financial financial assets
business/ financial assets liabilities for the year
country of as of December as of December ended December
Principal business activity incorporation 31, 20191,2 31, 20192 31, 20192
A. Wholly owned:
Aramco Affiliated Services Company Support services USA 2 – –
Aramco Asia India Private Limited Purchasing and other India 7 24 –
services
Aramco Asia Japan K.K. Purchasing and other Japan 20 76 2
services
Aramco Asia Korea Ltd. Purchasing and other South Korea 36 9 –
services
Aramco Asia Singapore Pte. Ltd. Purchasing and other Singapore 21 59 –
services
Aramco Associated Company Aircraft operations USA 140 538 24
Aramco (Beijing) Venture Management Investment People’s Republic – – –
Consultant Co. Ltd of China
Aramco Capital Company, LLC Aircraft leasing USA 219 1 4
Aramco Chemicals Company Chemicals Saudi Arabia 244 946 4
Aramco Far East (Beijing) Petrochemical purchasing/ People’s Republic 409 146 5
Business Services Co., Ltd. sales and other services of China
Aramco Financial Services Company Financing USA 7 – –
Aramco Gulf Operations Company Ltd. Production and sale Saudi Arabia 100 1,301 3
of crude oil
Aramco Innovations LLC Research and Russia 13 – –
commercialization
Aramco International Company Limited Support services British Virgin – – –
Islands
Aramco Overseas Company Azerbaijan Support services Azerbaijan 3 1 –
Aramco Overseas Company B.V. Purchasing and other Netherlands 11,966 1,252 240
services
Aramco Overseas Company Spain, S.L. Personnel and other Spain – – –
support services
Aramco Overseas Company UK, Limited Personnel and other United Kingdom – 18 –
support services
Aramco Overseas Egypt LLC Personnel and other Egypt – – –
support services
Aramco Overseas Malaysia Sdn. Bhd Personnel and other Malaysia 13 18 –
support services
Aramco Partnerships Company Support services USA – – –
Aramco Performance Materials LLC Petrochemical USA 6 7 –
manufacture and sales
1. Conventional financial assets comprise cash, time deposits, short term investments and investments in securities.
2. Represents 100% amounts of subsidiaries, after elimination of intercompany transactions.
3. Agreements and constitutive documents provide Saudi Aramco control.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
|  |
2 | – | –
7 | 24 | –
20 | 76 | 2
36 | 9 | –
21 | 59 | –
140 | 538 | 24
– | – | –
219 | 1 | 4
244 | 946 | 4
409 | 146 | 5
7 | – | –
100 | 1,301 | 3
13 | – | –
– | – | –
3 | 1 | –
11,966 | 1,252 | 240
– | – | –
– | 18 | –
– | – | –
13 | 18 | –
– | – | –
6 | 7 | –
[Page 198]
196 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
36. Subsidiaries of Saudi Arabian Oil Company continued
Interest income
from
Conventional conventional
Place of Conventional financial financial assets
business/ financial assets liabilities for the year
country of as of December as of December ended December
Principal business activity incorporation 31, 20191,2 31, 20192 31, 20192
Aramco Services Company Purchasing, engineering USA 286 484 6
and other services
Aramco Shared Benefits Company Benefit administration USA – – –
Aramco Trading Company (formerly, Importing, exporting Saudi Arabia 7,000 5,826 133
Saudi Aramco Products Trading and trading of crude oil,
Company) refined and chemical
products
Aramco Trading Fujairah FZE Importing/exporting UAE 3 1,453 1
refined products
Aramco Trading Limited Importing/exporting United Kingdom 107 10 –
refined products
Aramco Trading Singapore PTE-LTD Marketing and sales Singapore 168 1,819 5
support
Aramco Ventures Holdings Limited Investment Guernsey 28 – –
Aramco Ventures Investments Limited Investment Guernsey – – –
ARLANXEO Holding B.V. Development, Netherlands 338 33 7
manufacture, and
marketing of high-
performance rubber
ARLANXEO Belgium N.V. Belgium – 172 –
ARLANXEO Branch Offices B.V Netherlands 4 1 –
ARLANXEO Brasil S.A. Brazil 170 179 6
ARLANXEO Canada Inc. Canada 6 284 –
ARLANXEO Deutschland GmbH Germany – 236 –
ARLANXEO Elastomères Frances S.A.S. France – 128 –
ARLANXEO Emulsion Rubber France France – 154 –
S.A.S.
ARLANXEO High Performance People’s Republic 1 335 –
Elastomers (Changzhou) Co., Ltd. of China
ARLANXEO Netherlands B.V. Netherlands 14 278 –
ARLANXEO Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore 3 484 –
ARLANXEO Switzerland S.A. Switzerland 4 73 –
ARLANXEO USA Holdings Corp. USA – – –
ARLANXEO USA LLC USA 24 196 –
Petroflex Trading S.A. Uruguay – – –
Aurora Capital Holdings LLC Real estate holdings USA – – –
Bolanter Corporation N.V. Crude oil storage Curaçao 12 – 1
Briar Rose Ventures LLC Real estate holdings USA – – –
Canyon Lake Holdings LLC Retail fuel operations USA – – –
Excellent Performance Petrochemical Saudi Arabia 1 – 29
Chemicals Company manufacture and sales
4 Rivers Energy LLC Retail fuel operations USA – – –
Motiva Chemicals LLC Petrochemical USA 221 173 –
manufacture
Motiva Enterprises LLC Refining and marketing USA 1,903 21,481 129
Motiva Pipeline LLC Refining USA – – –
Motiva Trading LLC Purchasing and sale of USA 292 244 –
petroleum goods and
other services
Mukamala Oil Field Services Oil field services Saudi Arabia 449 – 8
Limited Company
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
[TABLE DATA]
286 | 484 | 6
– | – | –
7,000 | 5,826 | 133
3 | 1,453 | 1
107 | 10 | –
168 | 1,819 | 5
28 | – | –
– | – | –
338 | 33 | 7
– | 172 | –
4 | 1 | –
170 | 179 | 6
6 | 284 | –
– | 236 | –
– | 128 | –
– | 154 | –
1 | 335 | –
14 | 278 | –
3 | 484 | –
4 | 73 | –
– | – | –
24 | 196 | –
– | – | –
– | – | –
12 | – | 1
– | – | –
– | – | –
1 | – | 29
– | – | –
221 | 173 | –
1,903 | 21,481 | 129
– | – | –
292 | 244 | –
449 | – | 8
[Page 199]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 197
36. Subsidiaries of Saudi Arabian Oil Company continued
Interest income
from
Conventional conventional
Place of Conventional financial financial assets
business/ financial assets liabilities for the year
country of as of December as of December ended December
Principal business activity incorporation 31, 20191,2 31, 20192 31, 20192
Pandlewood Corporation N.V. Financing Curaçao 6,305 5 158
Pedernales Ventures LLC Retail fuel operations USA – – –
SAEV Europe Ltd. Investment United Kingdom 1 5 –
SAEV Guernsey 1 Ltd. Investment Guernsey 130 – –
SAEV Guernsey Holdings Ltd. Investment Guernsey 1,072 – –
Saudi Aramco Asia Company Ltd. Investment Saudi Arabia 1,952 – 39
Saudi Aramco Capital Company Limited Investment Guernsey – – –
Saudi Aramco Development Company Investment Saudi Arabia 422 – 11
Saudi Aramco Energy Ventures LLC Investment Saudi Arabia 68 – –
Saudi Aramco Energy Ventures – U.S. LLCInvestment USA 2 2 –
Saudi Aramco Entrepreneurship Center Financing Saudi Arabia 162 5 7
Company Ltd.
Saudi Aramco Entrepreneurship Venture Investment Saudi Arabia 144 – –
Company, Ltd.
Saudi Aramco Investment Management Investment management Saudi Arabia 3 – –
Company of post-employment
benefit plans
Saudi Aramco Jubail Refinery Company Refining Saudi Arabia – 2,800 15
Saudi Aramco Power Company Power generation Saudi Arabia 25 – –
Saudi Aramco Retail Company Retail fuel marketing Saudi Arabia 20 – –
Saudi Aramco Sukuk Company Investment Saudi Arabia – 65 –
Saudi Aramco Technologies Research and Saudi Arabia 99 75 –
commercialization
Saudi Aramco Upstream Research and Saudi Arabia 8 – –
Technology Company commercialization
Saudi Petroleum International, Inc. Marketing support services USA 39 44 1
Saudi Petroleum, Ltd. Marketing support British Virgin 38 – –
and tanker services Islands
Saudi Petroleum Overseas, Ltd. Marketing support United Kingdom 45 36 1
and tanker services
Saudi Refining, Inc. Refining and marketing USA 357 83 9
Stellar Insurance, Ltd. Insurance Bermuda 9,161 661 162
Vela International Marine Ltd. Marine management Liberia 21,259 – 566
and transportation
Wisayah Global Investment Company Financial support Saudi Arabia 139 30 2
(formerly: Wisayah Alkhaleej
Investment Company)
B. Unconsolidated structured entity
Energy City Development Company Industrial development Saudi Arabia – – –
(“SPARK”)
1. Conventional financial assets comprise cash, time deposits, short term investments and investments in securities.
2. Represents 100% amounts of subsidiaries, after elimination of intercompany transactions.
3. Agreements and constitutive documents provide Saudi Aramco control.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
6,305 | 5 | 158
– | – | –
1 | 5 | –
130 | – | –
1,072 | – | –
1,952 | – | 39
– | – | –
422 | – | 11
68 | – | –
2 | 2 | –
162 | 5 | 7
144 | – | –
3 | – | –
– | 2,800 | 15
25 | – | –
20 | – | –
– | 65 | –
99 | 75 | –
8 | – | –
39 | 44 | 1
38 | – | –
45 | 36 | 1
357 | 83 | 9
9,161 | 661 | 162
21,259 | – | 566
139 | 30 | 2
|  |
– | – | –
[Page 200]
198 All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
36. Subsidiaries of Saudi Arabian Oil Company continued
Interest income
from
Conventional conventional
Place of Conventional financial financial assets
business/ financial assets liabilities for the year
country of as of December as of December ended December
Principal business activity incorporation 31, 20191,2 31, 20192 31, 20192
C. Non-wholly owned
49% ownership of Aramco Training Training USA 1 – –
Services Company3
50% ownership of ARLANXEO-TSRC Development, People’s Republic 3 85 –
(Nantong) Chemical Industries Co.,Ltd.3 manufacture, and of China
marketing of high-
performance rubber
80% ownership of Johns Hopkins Healthcare Saudi Arabia 527 669 6
Aramco Healthcare Company
61.6% ownership of North East Liquid chemicals storage South Korea – – –
Chemicals Company, Ltd
70% ownership of Saudi Aramco Production and sale of Saudi Arabia – 1,531 17
Base Oil Company – LUBEREF petroleum based lubricants
50% ownership of Saudi Aramco Drilling Saudi Arabia 1,085 1,984 23
Nabors Drilling Company3
50% ownership of Saudi Aramco Drilling Saudi Arabia 889 2,629 26
Rowan Offshore Drilling Company3
61.6% ownership of S-Oil Corporation Refining South Korea 1,987 26,464 45
61.6% ownership of S-International Ltd. Purchasing and sale of The Independent – – –
petroleum goods State of Samoa
1. Conventional financial assets comprise cash, time deposits, short term investments and investments in securities.
2. Represents 100% amounts of subsidiaries, after elimination of intercompany transactions.
3. Agreements and constitutive documents provide Saudi Aramco control.
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detadilosnoc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
[TABLE DATA]
|  |
1 | – | –
3 | 85 | –
527 | 669 | 6
– | – | –
– | 1,531 | 17
1,085 | 1,984 | 23
889 | 2,629 | 26
1,987 | 26,464 | 45
– | – | –
[Page 201]
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated 199
37. Joint operations of Saudi Arabian Oil Company
Interest income
from
Conventional conventional
Place of Conventional financial financial assets
business/ financial assets liabilities for the year
Percent country of as of December as of December ended December
Principal business activity ownership incorporation 31, 20191,2 31, 20192 31, 20192
Al-Khafji Joint Operations Oil and gas exploration 50% Saudi-Kuwaiti – – –
and production Partitioned Zone
Fadhili Plant Power generation 30% Saudi Arabia 17 1,211 –
Cogeneration Company
Maasvlakte Olie Tank storage 9.61% Netherlands – 644 –
Terminal C.V.
Maasvlakte Olie Tank storage 16.67% Netherlands – 2 –
Terminal N.V.
Pengerang Refining Refining 50% Malaysia 936 20,439 6
Company Sdn. Bhd.
Pengerang Petrochemical Petrochemical 50% Malaysia 189 2,637 2
Company Sdn. Bhd.
Power Cogeneration Plant Power generation 50% Saudi Arabia 40 961 56
Company, LLC
Saudi Aramco Mobil Refining 50% Saudi Arabia 839 1,088 20
Refinery Company Ltd.
Saudi Aramco Total Refining and petrochemical 62.50% Saudi Arabia 261 9,444 39
Refining and
Petrochemical Company3
Yanbu Aramco Sinopec Refining 62.50% Saudi Arabia 241 7,037 –
Refining Company
Limited3
1. Conventional financial assets comprise cash, time deposits, short term investments and investments in securities.
2. Represents Saudi Aramco’s share of conventional financial assets, financial liabilities and interest income.
3. Agreements and constitutive documents do not give a single shareholder control; therefore, the joint operation does not qualify as a subsidiary.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
– | – | –
17 | 1,211 | –
– | 644 | –
– | 2 | –
936 | 20,439 | 6
189 | 2,637 | 2
40 | 961 | 56
839 | 1,088 | 20
261 | 9,444 | 39
241 | 7,037 | –
[Page 204]
202
Additional financial information
Historical financial highlights
Summarized consolidated statement of income
Year ended December 31
All amounts in millions SAR unless otherwise stated 2019 20181 20171 20161
Revenue2 1,105,696 1,194,376 840,483 504,596
Other income related to sales3 131,089 152,641 150,176 –
Revenue and other income related to sales 1,236,785 1,347,017 990,659 504,596
Operating costs2,4,5 (561,914)4 (548,612) (407,744) (198,896)5
Operating income 674,871 798,405 582,915 305,700
Income before income taxes 666,7414 797,896 581,438 304,976
Income taxes6 (336,048) (381,378) (296,819) (255,255)
Net income 330,693 416,518 284,619 49,721
1. I n the preparation of each of its 2017, 2018 and the current year 2019 Financial Statements, Saudi Aramco reclassified certain prior year results that appear in the comparative column of the
Financial Statements. The financial information above presents the reclassified results: (i) the financial information in this section for the year ended December 31, 2016 has been extracted from
the comparative column of the 2017 financial statements; (ii) the financial information for the year ended December 31, 2017 has been extracted from the comparative column of the 2018 financial
statements; and (iii) the financial information for the year ended December 31, 2018 has been extracted from the comparative column of the current year 2019 financial statements.
2. P rior to 2017, royalties payable to the Government were accounted for as a deduction from revenue. With effect from January 1, 2017, royalties attributable to the production of crude oil and
condensate, natural gas and NGLs are accounted for as an expense, rather than a deduction from revenue.
3. S audi Aramco sells certain hydrocarbons within the Kingdom at regulated prices mandated by the Government. From January 1, 2017, the Government implemented an equalization mechanism
to compensate Saudi Aramco for revenues directly foregone as a result of Saudi Aramco’s compliance with the Government mandates related to crude oil and certain refined products.
4. S audi Aramco adopted IFRS 16 on January 1, 2019 using a modified retrospective approach. As a result, in the preparation of the 2019 financial statements, Saudi Aramco applied prospectively,
starting January 1, 2019, the new classification and measurement models for lease contracts and consequently 2018 comparative information was not restated.
5. S audi Aramco recognized an impairment of SAR 13,646 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 primarily related to the Jazan integrated petrochemical refinery under construction and two
existing domestic refineries.
6. A s at January 1, 2017, the income tax rate applicable to Saudi Aramco was reduced from 85% to 50%, except that effective from January 1, 2018, a 20% tax rate applies to Saudi Aramco’s taxable
income related to certain natural gas activities.
Summarized consolidated balance sheet
As at December 31
All amounts in millions SAR unless otherwise stated 2019 20181 2017 2016
Total assets 1,494,1262 1,346,892 1,102,553 940,703
Total liabilities 447,8912 318,457 276,239 205,357
Net assets (total equity) 1,046,235 1,028,435 826,314 735,346
1. I n the preparation of the current year 2019 Financial Statements, Saudi Aramco reclassified certain 2018 results that appear in the comparative column of the Financial Statements. The financial
information above presents the reclassified results: the financial information for the year ended December 31, 2018 has been extracted from the comparative column of the current year 2019
financial statements.
2. S audi Aramco adopted IFRS 16 on January 1, 2019 using a modified retrospective approach. As a result, in the preparation of the 2019 financial statements, Saudi Aramco applied prospectively,
starting January 1, 2019, the new classification and measurement models for lease contracts and consequently 2018 comparative information was not restated.
Summarized consolidated statement of cash flows
Year ended December 31
All amounts in millions SAR unless otherwise stated 2019 2018 2017 2016
Net cash provided by operating activities1 416,529 453,701 333,607 109,411
Net cash used in investing activities (177,144) (131,205) (118,629) (116,900)
Net cash (used in)/provided by financing activities1 (244,831) (220,586) (181,811) 2,021
1. S audi Aramco adopted IFRS 16 on January 1, 2019 using a modified retrospective approach. As a result, in the preparation of the 2019 financial statements, Saudi Aramco applied prospectively,
starting January 1, 2019, the new classification and measurement models for lease contracts and consequently 2018 comparative information was not restated.
noitamrofni
lagel
dna
laicnanfi
lanoitidda
[TABLE DATA]
|
1,105,696 |
131,089 |
1,236,785 |
(561,914)4 |
674,871 |
|
666,7414 |
(336,048) |
330,693 |
|
1,494,1262 |
447,8912 |
1,046,235 |
|
416,529 |
(177,144) |
(244,831) |
[Page 205]
203
Statutory amounts paid and payable
Statutory amounts paid
Year ended
All amounts in millions SAR December 31,
unless otherwise stated Reasons for amounts paid 2019
Income taxes Income tax calculated in accordance with Saudi Income Tax Regulations. See Note 8 of the 150,803
Consolidated Financial Statements
Royalties Production Royalty determined in accordance with Government agreements 170,256
Total 321,059
Statutory amounts payable
As at
All amounts in millions SAR December 31,
unless otherwise stated Reasons for amounts payable 2019
Income taxes Government obligation, paid or payable on a monthly basis 62,243
Royalties Government obligation, paid or payable on a monthly basis 14,727
Total 76,970
Geographical analysis of Saudi Aramco’s external revenue
Sales to external customers by region are based on the location of the Saudi Aramco entity, which made the sale. Out of Kingdom revenue
includes sales of SAR 119,325 million originating from the United States (2018: SAR 118,762 million). For more details, refer to Section 7:
Consolidated Financial Statements – Note 4 – Information by geographical area.
2019 2018
Billions SAR Billions SAR
Out of Kingdom 234.2 Out of Kingdom 202.6
Kingdom 871.5 Kingdom 991.8
Geographical analysis of the Company’s crude oil deliveries
The following analysis is based on the Company’s crude oil delivery destination.
Year ended December 31
2019 2018
mbpd mbpd
Region:
Asia 5,436 5,211
North America 563 1,013
Europe 802 864
Others 248 240
Total international deliveries 7,049 7,328
Deliveries to in-Kingdom refineries 2,460 2,567
In-Kingdom deliveries at regulated prices 425 410
Total in-Kingdom deliveries 2,886 2,977
Total deliveries 9,935 10,305
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[TABLE DATA]
5,436
563
802
248
7,049
2,460
425
2,886
9,935
[Page 206]
204
Related party transactions
Saudi Aramco has entered into various related party contracts and transactions. The Directors declare that all such contracts and transactions
have been entered into on an arm’s length basis.
Saudi Aramco sells crude oil, gas and refined products and provides services to certain Government entities, including branches of the
Government, and commercial entities in which the Government has share ownership or control. Other than with respect to compensation
arrangements, as at the date of this Annual Report there are no transactions in which any of Saudi Aramco’s Directors or Senior Executives
or an immediate family member thereof had or will have a direct or indirect personal interest or were not entered into on an arm’s length basis.
For more information on Saudi Aramco’s related party transactions, see Section 7: Consolidated Financial Statements – Note 32.
The following table sets forth related party transactions entered into by Saudi Aramco during the year ended December 31, 2019.
Year ended
December 31,
All amounts in millions SAR unless otherwise stated 2019
Joint ventures:
Revenue from sales 7,485
Other revenue 83
Interest income 30
Purchases 544
Service expenses 19
Associates:
Revenue from sales 36,866
Other revenue 183
Interest income 165
Purchases 36,960
Service expenses 188
Government and semi-Government agencies:
Revenue from sales 45,079
Other income related to sales 131,089
Other revenue 1,058
Purchases 11,606
Service expenses 409
Acquisition of treasury shares 3,750
Sale of partial interest in joint venture 14
The following table sets forth Saudi Aramco’s related party transaction balances as at December 31, 2019.
As at
December 31,
All amounts in millions SAR unless otherwise stated 2019
Joint ventures:
Other assets and receivables 1,609
Trade receivables 836
Interest receivable 30
Trade and other payable 15
Associates:
Other assets and receivables 3,326
Trade receivables 8,715
Trade and other payables 4,553
Government and semi-Government agencies:
Trade receivables 5,985
Due from the Government 36,781
Trade and other payables 3,019
Borrowings 5,366
Sales to and receivables from Government and semi-Government agencies are made on specific terms within the relevant regulatory framework
in the Kingdom.
noitamrofni
lagel
dna
laicnanfi
lanoitidda
[TABLE DATA]
7,485
83
30
544
19
36,866
183
165
36,960
188
45,079
131,089
1,058
11,606
409
3,750
14
1,609
836
30
15
3,326
8,715
4,553
5,985
36,781
3,019
5,366
[Page 207]
205
The following are details of material related parties:
• Rabigh Refining & Petrochemical Company (Petro Rabigh) Revenues from sales: SAR 34,706 million and Purchases: SAR 33,548 million.
Total indebtedness of Saudi Aramco
Saudi Aramco has a number of debt instruments that are payable at a future date or repayable over a period of time, including debentures
denominated in U.S. dollars and Korean Won.
Information on the total indebtedness as at December 31, 2019 is as follows.
Repaid Balance as at
Borrowing category Total Loan during the December 31, Maturity
All amounts in millions SAR unless otherwise stated facility duration year 2019 date
Commercial 41,576 10 to 20 years (3,286) 32,996 2021-2039
Sukuk (Shari'a compliant) 39,844 7 to 12 years (180) 12,825 2024-2025
Export credit agencies 6,354 12 years (488) 3,743 2025
Public Investment Fund 4,594 7 to 12 years (458) 2,880 2023-2025
Saudi Industrial Development Fund (Shari’a compliant) 3,248 6 to 7 years (296) 2,486 2022-2030
IJARA/Procurement (Shari'a compliant) 1,811 10 years (90) 1,811 2029
Marabaha (Shari'a compliant) 3,750 10 years – 1,084 2023
Wakala (Shari’a compliant) and other Islamic financing 345 10 years (270) 345 2029
Revolving Credit Facility 49,350 1 to 3 year – 2,861 2020-2022
Short-term bank financing 25,500 1 year – 9,803 2020
Debentures – 10 to 30 years (71) 61,489 2027-2049
Other – – (13) 2,329 Not defined
Finance leases – 1 to 13 years (7,751) 40,934 2021-2043
176,372 (12,902) 175,585
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 208]
206
Reserves information
Reserves as at December 31, 2019
As at December 31, 2019, the Kingdom’s reserves in the fields Saudi Aramco operates consisted of 336.7 billion boe (2018: 336.2 billion boe),
including 261.5 billion barrels (2018: 261.5 billion barrels) of crude oil and condensate, 36.0 billion barrels (2018: 36.1 billion barrels) of NGLs and
237.4 tscf (2018: 233.8 tscf) of natural gas, including 146.8 tscf (2018: 143.2 tscf) of non-associated gas.
Under the Original Concession, which was in effect until December 24, 2017, Saudi Aramco’s rights with respect to hydrocarbons in the
Kingdom were not limited to a particular term. Accordingly, until such date, the Kingdom’s reserves in the fields Saudi Aramco operated were
the same as Saudi Aramco’s reserves. Effective December 24, 2017, the Concession limited Saudi Aramco’s exclusive right to explore, develop
and produce the Kingdom’s hydrocarbon resources, except in the Excluded Areas, to an initial period of 40 years, which will be extended by the
Government for 20 years provided Saudi Aramco satisfies certain conditions commensurate with current operating practices. In addition, the
Concession may be extended for an additional 40 years beyond the prior 60 year period subject to Saudi Aramco and the Government agreeing
on the terms of the extension (see Section 8: Additional financial and legal information – Material Agreements – The Concession). The provision
of a specified term in the Concession impacts the calculation of Saudi Aramco’s reserves as compared to the Kingdom’s reserves in the fields
Saudi Aramco operates. The Concession also requires Saudi Aramco to meet domestic demand for certain hydrocarbons, petroleum products
and LPG through domestic production or imports.
Based on the initial 40-year period and 20-year extension of the Concession, as at December 31, 2019, Saudi Aramco’s reserves were 258.6
billion boe (2018: 256.9 billion boe). Saudi Aramco’s oil equivalent reserves consisted of 201.9 billion barrels (2018: 201.4 billion barrels) of crude
oil and condensate, 25.7 billion barrels (2018: 25.4 billion barrels) of NGLs and 190.6 tscf (2018: 185.7 tscf) of natural gas. As at December 31,
2019, Saudi Aramco’s portfolio included 510 (2018: 498) reservoirs within 138 (2018: 136) fields distributed throughout the Kingdom and its
territorial waters. Based on Saudi Aramco’s reserve data, as at December 31, 2019, Saudi Aramco’s oil equivalent reserves were sufficient for
proved reserves life of 52 years.
The increase in the 2019 Concession reserves compared to 2018 is partly attributable to Saudi Aramco conducting 44 simulation studies, which
resulted in reserves additions in some of the existing and producing fields. In addition, portfolio production optimization and latest advanced
technology implementation led to a further increase in reserves.
Saudi Aramco manages the Kingdom’s unique reserves and resources base to optimize production and maximize long-term value pursuant
to the Hydrocarbons Law, which mandates that Saudi Aramco’s hydrocarbon operations promote long-term productivity of the Kingdom’s
reservoirs and support the prudent stewardship of its hydrocarbon resources. Saudi Aramco has historically replaced reserves on an organic basis
through revisions of reserve estimates at existing fields and through delineation and exploration to identify new fields. As a result, the Kingdom’s
estimated proved reserves at the largest oil fields operated by Saudi Aramco have increased since the time of original production.
The following table sets forth Saudi Aramco’s estimates of its proved reserves of crude oil, condensate, natural gas and NGLs based on the term
of the Concession as at December 31, 2019 and 2018.
Natural gas
Crude oil Condensate NGLs Combined
(mmbbl) (mmbbl) (bscf) (mmboe) (mmbbl) (mmboe)
Reserves as at December 31, 2019 198,569 3,338 190,575 30,933 25,723 258,563
Reserves as at December 31, 2018 198,194 3,191 185,726 30,120 25,385 256,890
The following table sets forth the Kingdom’s estimates of its proved reserves of crude oil, condensate, natural gas and NGLs in the fields
Saudi Aramco operates as at December 31, 2019 and 2018.
Natural gas
Crude oil Condensate NGLs Combined
(mmbbl) (mmbbl) (bscf) (mmboe) (mmbbl) (mmboe)
Reserves as at December 31, 20191 257,125 4,410 237,368 39,119 36,043 336,697
Reserves as at December 31, 2018 257,270 4,257 233,766 38,519 36,144 336,190
1. Total “raw” natural gas reserves additions of 9.2 tscf in 2019, comprising 7.6 tscf of non-associated gas and 1.6 tscf of associated gas.
noitamrofni
lagel
dna
laicnanfi
lanoitidda
[Page 209]
207
Saudi Aramco’s reserve estimates conform to the SPE-PRMS definitions and guidelines, which is the internationally recognized industry standard
sponsored by the Society of Petroleum Engineers, the American Association of Petroleum Geologists, the World Petroleum Council, the Society
of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers, the Society of Exploration Geophysicists, the Society of Petrophysicists and Well Log Analysts and the
European Association of Geoscientists and Engineers. To estimate or update Saudi Aramco’s reserve estimates, the Upstream segment
employees responsible for reserves calculations perform technical analyses that are reviewed internally by progressively higher levels of
management until finalized at year-end. Saudi Aramco annually updates its estimates as it acquires and interprets new data. For reservoirs that
have been producing and have established certain performance trends, Saudi Aramco is typically able to reliably forecast the reservoir’s future
production. For reservoirs that have little to no production history and new discoveries, Saudi Aramco undertakes further analysis in addition to
multidisciplinary evaluation to formulate production forecasts.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 210]
208
Regulation of the oil and gas industry in the Kingdom
The following paragraphs summarize certain key regulation and legislation to which Saudi Aramco is subject as an operator in the oil and
gas industry.
Law on hydrocarbons
Overview
The Hydrocarbons Law was enacted by Royal Decree No. M/37, dated 2/4/1439H (corresponding to December 20, 2017) and applies to
hydrocarbons, hydrocarbon resources and the hydrocarbon operations existing within the territory of the Kingdom.
Licenses
No hydrocarbon operations can be conducted in the Kingdom without obtaining a license in accordance with the Hydrocarbons Law. The
Government grants licenses related to hydrocarbon operations pursuant to regulations, procedures and policies established from time to time,
which outline the terms and conditions relating to the granting of a license.
The grant of a license pursuant to the Hydrocarbons Law does not, and cannot, confer any right of ownership of the soil or subsoil in the license
area. In addition, the Government retains the right to explore for and exploit any natural resource other than hydrocarbons in the license area
and may exercise such right in a manner that does not prejudice the licensee’s rights and does not hinder the hydrocarbon operations conducted
by a licensee.
Ownership rights
Under the Hydrocarbons Law, the Kingdom exercises sovereignty over all hydrocarbon deposits, hydrocarbons and hydrocarbon resources.
All hydrocarbons in the Kingdom are owned by the Kingdom and, upon extraction or recovery of such hydrocarbons by the licensee, title to
such hydrocarbons shall automatically pass to the licensee at the ownership transfer point. The Kingdom’s ownership of hydrocarbon deposits
and hydrocarbon resources may not be transferred.
Supervision and implementation of the Hydrocarbons Law
The Ministry of Energy is the only body responsible for implementing the Hydrocarbons Law and overseeing all aspects of a licensee’s
hydrocarbons operations, including the licensee’s technical operations and the review of all the licensee’s revenues and expenses. The Ministry of
Energy acts as a liaison between relevant bodies and the licensee in relation to a license. The Ministry of Energy is also responsible for preparing
and overseeing the national strategies and policies related to hydrocarbons to ensure the implementation, development and appropriate use
of hydrocarbon resources, and conservation of the Kingdom’s hydrocarbon reserves for future generations.
Production decisions
The Kingdom has the sovereign, exclusive and binding authority to make production decisions related to both the maximum level of hydrocarbons
that a licensee can produce at any given point in time and the level of MSC that a licensee must maintain. In each case, the Kingdom shall take
into account the Kingdom’s economic development, environment conservation, national security, political and developmental goals, foreign
policy, diplomatic considerations, domestic energy needs, public interest and any other sovereign interest when making a production decision.
In setting the level of MSC, consideration shall be given to the economic or operational effects of a licensee. A licensee must provide the Kingdom
with any requested information relating to hydrocarbons exploration, extraction and production, including financial and technical data, discovery
data and any other information that could facilitate the issuance of a production decision. The Kingdom has unrestricted access to such information.
Conservation of hydrocarbon resources
The Hydrocarbons Law requires that hydrocarbons operations be managed and maintained in a professional, adequate and active manner in
accordance with international industry standards, the Hydrocarbons Law and regulations, and in an economically feasible and efficient manner
that promotes the long-term productivity of reservoirs in the licensed area and supports the prudent stewardship of hydrocarbon resources and
hydrocarbons, and limits their abandonment.
Additional licensee obligations
A licensee is responsible for taking all prudent and sound procedures to ensure the safety of the licensee’s hydrocarbon operations and facilities,
in accordance with international industry standards and applicable laws. A licensee is also obligated to take all required precautions, in accordance
with the relevant hydrocarbons regulations and international industry standards, to prevent waste and leakage of hydrocarbons, damage to
formations containing water and hydrocarbons during drilling, repairing or deepening of wells, or in events of abandonment or relinquishment,
and to prevent leakage of gas and liquids into bearing layers or other layers.
The Hydrocarbons Law prohibits any licensee from selling to any entity any hydrocarbons or derivatives obtained through the license in violation
of what the Kingdom considers necessary to protect the fundamental security interests of the Kingdom in times of war or other emergencies
in international relations.
noitamrofni
lagel
dna
laicnanfi
lanoitidda
[Page 211]
209
Law of gas supplies and pricing
Overview
The GSPR was enacted by Royal Decree No. M/36, dated 25/6/1424H (corresponding to August 23, 2003), and applies to the activities of
transmission, processing, fractionation, storage, local distribution, aggregation and sales and marketing (each, a Regulated Activity) of any
gaseous or liquid hydrocarbons (other than crude oil or condensate) produced in the Kingdom which have been subject to treatment in a gas
treatment plant (Regulated Hydrocarbons).
Licenses
Pursuant to the GSPR, a license is required for the conduct of any Regulated Activity. In considering an application for a license, the Ministry of
Energy takes into account the long-term security of supply of any Regulated Hydrocarbons, the avoidance of undesirable duplication consistent
with the optimal development of the Kingdom’s gas industry and the proximity of the proposed Regulated Activity to the MGS.
Saudi Aramco as aggregators and tariffs
Under the GSPR, Saudi Aramco acts as the aggregator of Regulated Hydrocarbons which access the MGS.
The Ministry of Energy publishes transportation, processing and fractionation tariffs, and other terms and conditions applicable to the MGS
and to connections to the MGS as prescribed in the rules of implementation of the GSPR. The tariff and other terms and conditions for services
provided through any pipeline that is not connected to the MGS are negotiated between the relevant parties. The rules of implementation of
the GSPR set out the criteria for determining third party access tariffs which may be charged for the utilization of any local distribution system.
Marketing and sales rights: price for natural gas
Pursuant to the GSPR, Saudi Aramco performs all domestic marketing and sales of natural gas and NGLs from the MGS with certain exceptions.
Saudi Aramco also undertakes the export of NGLs produced within the Kingdom. Any company that produces Regulated Hydrocarbons in the
Kingdom and does not access the MGS may domestically consume, sell or otherwise domestically dispose of such Relevant Hydrocarbon as per
the terms set by the Ministry of Energy. All natural gas produced by any company is to be priced at the regulated price in the Kingdom at the
point of delivery to a major consumer or to a licensee entitled to operate a local distribution system.
Allocation of natural gas and NGLs
The necessary allocation to users of Regulated Hydrocarbons is effected by the Ministry pursuant to criteria set by the Ministry of Energy on the
basis of sectoral demand estimates for each of the electricity sector, the petrochemical sector, the water desalination sector, the oil sector and
other industrial sectors, reflecting the usages of natural gas and NGLs that achieve the optimal efficiency and produce the highest added value
to the national economy of the Kingdom.
Regulated domestic pricing of certain hydrocarbons
Setting of domestic prices for regulated hydrocarbons
Pursuant to a series of Council of Ministers Resolutions, the Kingdom has established regulated prices for domestic sales of certain hydrocarbons:
crude oil, natural gas (including ethane), NGLs (propane, butane and natural gasoline) and certain refined products (kerosene, diesel, heavy fuel
oil and gasoline).
Price equalization
Pursuant to Council of Ministers Resolution No. 406, dated 28/6/1438H (corresponding to March 27, 2017), and the Ministerial Resolution issued
by the Ministry of Energy, in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, No. 1/2465/1439, dated 10/4/1439H (corresponding to December 28, 2017),
when Saudi Aramco sells crude oil and certain refined products (each a Relevant Product) domestically at a price below the corresponding
equalization prices (described below), Saudi Aramco is entitled to compensation from the Government in an amount equal to the cost of the
revenues directly forgone as a result of Saudi Aramco’s compliance with the Kingdom’s current pricing mandates (the Price Equalization). The
Ministerial Resolution issued by the Ministry of Energy, in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, No. 1/424/1441, dated 18/1/1441H
(corresponding to September 17, 2019), effective January 1, 2020, superseded the prior Ministerial Resolution and expanded the equalization
mechanism to include LPGs and certain other products. In the event the equalization price is less than the regulated price, the difference would
be due from Saudi Aramco to the Government.
The Ministry of Energy is responsible for administering the Price Equalization regime, including the setting of the equalization prices from time
to time. The equalization prices are established separately by the Ministry of Energy for each Relevant Product using a combination of either
internationally recognized indices or, where relevant, Saudi Aramco’s official selling price and, depending on the Relevant Product, on the basis
of export parity, import parity or a combination of both. Saudi Aramco is required to provide information and technical assistance to the Ministry
of Energy as necessary for this purpose.
The compensation from the Government is accounted for on a monthly basis and is calculated as the positive difference between the
equalization prices and the regulated prices (minus any Government fees). Saudi Aramco must provide the Ministry of Energy with a statement
detailing the total amount due to Saudi Aramco in a monthly period no later than 30 days after the relevant monthly period end. Saudi Aramco
may then offset this compensation against any taxes payable, and in the event taxes are insufficient, any other amounts due and payable by
Saudi Aramco to the Government, such as royalties.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 212]
210
Gas pricing
From time to time, the Kingdom establishes certain prices for the domestic sale of gas hydrocarbons (the Domestic Price), including those for
Regulated Gas Products. Pursuant to Council of Ministers Resolution No. 370, dated 10/7/1439H (corresponding to March 27, 2018), and the
Ministerial Resolution issued by the Ministry of Energy, in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, No. 01-5928-1439, dated as at 27/8/1439H
(corresponding to May 13, 2018), effective March 17, 2018, the Kingdom established the price due to licensees for the domestic sale of
Regulated Gas Products (the Blended Price) in order to ensure that such licensees making gas investments realize a commercial rate of return
suitable for the development and exploitation of gas resources in the Kingdom (with reasonable rates of return on existing non-associated gas
projects and on incremental future non-associated projects).
Effective September 17, 2019, Council of Ministers Resolution No. 55, dated 18/1/1441H (corresponding to September 17, 2019), and the
Ministerial Resolution issued by the Ministry of Energy, in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, No. 1/423/1441, dated 18/1/1441H
(corresponding to September 17, 2019), were passed, superseding the prior Council of Ministers’ resolutions and ministerial resolutions, and
removing the requirement that the Domestic Price be no less than the Blended Price. The new framework instead provides that the licensees
are entitled to compensation from the Government in an amount equal to the cost of the revenues directly forgone as a result of the licensees’
compliance with the Kingdom’s pricing mandates if the Domestic Prices are not set at least at the Blended Prices. In the event that the Blended
Price is less than the Domestic Price, the difference would be due from Saudi Aramco to the Government.
The Ministry of Energy is responsible for administering this regime, including setting the Blended Prices from time to time. The Blended Prices are
established separately by the Ministry of Energy for each Regulated Gas Product. Saudi Aramco is required to provide information and technical
assistance to the Ministry of Energy as necessary for this purpose.
The compensation from the Government is accounted for on a monthly basis and is calculated as the positive difference between the Blended
Prices and the Domestic Prices (minus any Government fees). Saudi Aramco must provide the Ministry of Energy with a statement detailing the
total amount due to Saudi Aramco in a monthly period no later than 30 days after the relevant monthly period end. Saudi Aramco may then
offset this compensation against any taxes payable, and in the event taxes are insufficient, any other amounts due and payable by Saudi Aramco
to the Government, such as royalties.
Government guarantee
Saudi Aramco sells hydrocarbon products to various Government and semi-Government entities, including ministries and other branches of the
Government, and separate legal entities in which the Government has share ownership or control. Effective January 1, 2017, the Government
guaranteed amounts due to Saudi Aramco from these entities, subject to a limit on the amount of the guarantee for each entity. The aggregate
amount guaranteed in 2017, 2018 and 2019 was SAR 22.4 billion, SAR 32.7 billion and 26.7 billion, respectively. Prior to the beginning of each
subsequent fiscal year or during such year upon the change to any Government established domestic prices for hydrocarbon products (such
regulated sales constituting the majority of the sales to Government and semi-Government entities covered by the guarantee), the Ministry
of Energy will consult with the Ministry of Finance and will provide Saudi Aramco with a list of the entities to be covered by the guarantee for
that year and the guarantee limit for each covered entity. Government entities previously covered will remain subject to the guarantee, but the
guarantee will cease with respect to any entity in which the Government has share ownership or control if such entity pays amounts due to
Saudi Aramco on a timely basis for five years. Saudi Aramco is permitted to discontinue supply to any such Government or semi-Government
customer upon the exhaustion of the credit limit or if such customer is no longer a guaranteed customer and fails to pay any amounts when
due. Saudi Aramco may set off any guaranteed amounts that are past due against taxes due to the Government, or if the amount of taxes are
inadequate, any other amounts Saudi Aramco owes to the Government.
Other relevant laws and regulations
Health and safety regulations
Health and safety matters associated with oil and gas activities are regulated through several Government authorities, including the Ministry
of Interior. In addition, the High Commission for Industrial Security issues safety and fire protection directives for industrial facilities which set
forth minimum requirements for health and safety management systems. Health and safety principles and obligations are included in Part 8
(Protection against Occupational Hazards, Major Industrial Accidents and Work Injuries, and Health and Social Services) of the Saudi Arabian
Labor Law issued under Royal Decree No. M/51, dated 23/8/1426H (corresponding to September 27, 2005), as amended, and Part 5 of the
Social Insurance Law, enacted by Royal Decree No. M/22 dated 6/9/1389H (corresponding to October 15, 1969) as amended by Royal Decree
No. M/33 dated 3/9/1421H (corresponding to November 29, 2000).
noitamrofni
lagel
dna
laicnanfi
lanoitidda
[Page 213]
211
Environmental regulations
Under the General Environmental Law, enacted by Royal Decree No. M/34, dated 28/7/1422H (corresponding to October 16, 2001), and its
implementing regulations issued by the Ministry of Defense Resolution No. 1/1/4/5/1/924 dated 3/8/1424H (corresponding to September 30, 2003)
as amended by the Ministry of Defense Resolution No. 1/1/4/5/2391 dated 8/5/1426H (corresponding to June 15, 2005), the General Authority
of Meteorology and Environmental Protection (GAMEP) as well as the MEWA are charged with the general supervision of environmental affairs
in the Kingdom. This law sets out wide-ranging prohibitions of pollution and contamination of air, land and water, with particular reference to all
parties involved in services, industry or other economic activities. Owners of “projects”, which are defined as utilities and facilities that may have
an effect on the environment, are required to comply with existing and future environmental specifications, standards, measurements and
guidelines as promulgated by GAMEP or the MEWA and set out in the appendices of the corresponding implementing regulations. Prior to the
initiation of a project, an environmental evaluation study, identifying: (i) potential environmental impacts; (ii) appropriate actions and means to
prevent or reduce negative impacts; or (iii) appropriate actions to increase the project’s positive returns to the environment, must be completed
in accordance with the relevant environmental specifications and standards.
Apart from national environmental legislation, other regulations are applicable in certain areas of the Kingdom. The Royal Commission for Jubail
and Yanbu’ has issued detailed local environmental regulations applicable to facilities located within the Royal Commission areas and contractors
operating therein (i.e., the Jubail Industrial City Royal Commission Environmental Regulations of September 1999). Saudi Aramco separately
requires compliance with environmental standards in certain circumstances. For example, Saudi Aramco administers the oil loading terminals
at Ras Tanura, Ju’aymah and several smaller terminals independently of the Saudi Ports Authority.
Saudization
The Kingdom has promulgated a Saudization policy (Saudization) implemented by the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Development.
Saudization requires Saudi companies to ensure that a certain percentage of their workforce comprises Saudi nationals. Further, investors in the
energy sector are encouraged to abide by the Kingdom’s broad policies of ensuring a commitment to the training and employment of Saudis.
The Nitaqat Saudization Program (the Nitaqat Program) was approved pursuant to the Ministry of Labor and Social Development Resolution
No. 4040, dated 12/10/1432H (corresponding to September 10, 2011), based on Council of Ministers Resolution No. 50, dated 21/5/1415H
(corresponding to October 27, 1994), which was applied as at 12/10/1432H (corresponding to September 10, 2011). The Ministry of Human
Resources and Social Development established the Nitaqat Program to encourage establishments to hire Saudi nationals. The Nitaqat Program
assesses an establishment’s Saudization performance based on specific ranges of compliance, which are platinum, green (which is further divided
into low, medium and high ranges), yellow and red. Saudi Aramco has been classified under the “High Green” category, which means that Saudi
Aramco complies with the current Saudization requirements, which accordingly allow the compliant companies to secure work visas.
Moreover, the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Development has approved a new amendment to the Nitaqat Program under the
“Nitaqat Mawzon” Program in order to improve the market’s performance and development and to eliminate non-productive nationalization.
It was intended to come into effect on 12/3/1438H (corresponding to December 11, 2016), but in response to private sector demands for
additional time to achieve the nationalization rate, the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Development postponed the program until
further notice and no new implementation date has been set. Under the “Nitaqat Mawzon” program, points would be calculated based on five
factors: (i) the nationalization rate; (ii) the average wage for Saudi workers; (iii) the percentage of female nationalization; (iv) job sustainability for
Saudi nationals; and (v) the percentage of Saudi nationals with high wages. Currently, entities continue to be ranked on the basis of a system of
rolling averages which calculate average weekly “Saudization” over a 26 week period.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 214]
212
Additional legal information
Saudi Aramco
The Company was established in the Kingdom as a company with limited liability by virtue of Royal Decree No. M/8 dated 4/4/1409H
(corresponding to November 13, 1988) to assume the privileges and rights of its predecessor. It became a Saudi joint stock company as at
14/4/1439H (corresponding to January 1, 2018) pursuant to Council of Ministers Resolution No. 180 dated 1/4/1439H (corresponding to
December 19, 2017). Saudi Aramco’s registered head office is located at P.O. Box 5000, Dhahran 31311, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Its share
capital is sixty billion Saudi Riyals (SAR 60,000,000,000), consisting of two hundred billion (200,000,000,000) fully paid ordinary shares with
no par value. Saudi Aramco’s principal activities consist of two primary operating segments, Upstream and Downstream, which are supported
by its corporate activities (for further details please refer to Section 3: Results and performance).
On December 11, 2019, the Company completed its IPO and its ordinary shares were listed on Tadawul. In connection with the IPO the
Government sold 3.45 billion ordinary shares, or 1.73% of the Company’s share capital. In addition, concurrent with the IPO, the Company
acquired 117.2 million of its ordinary shares from the Government for a cash payment of SAR 3,750 million. These shares are held by the
Company as treasury shares for the purposes of issuing them to the Company’s employees upon the vesting of the grant award and any other
employee share plans that the Company may adopt in the future.
Subsidiaries
Saudi Aramco holds direct and indirect ownership interests in 141 domestic and foreign subsidiaries.
Material subsidiaries
The Company holds, directly or indirectly, ownership interests in the following subsidiaries, which (i) accounted for 1% or more of Saudi Aramco’s
assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities, revenues or profits calculated based on the 2019 Financial Statements, or otherwise (ii) Saudi Aramco
believes is of material or strategic importance to its operations as a result of the nature of its commercial activities or the amount of cash it holds,
and (iii) any subsidiary controlling any of the entities meeting the aforementioned criteria (each a material subsidiary). The following table sets out
the details of each material subsidiary:
Place of
business/
country of
Name of entity incorporation Interest (%) Main activity Share capital
Aramco Gulf Operations Company Ltd. Saudi Arabia 100% Production and sale of crude oil US$ 267,380
Aramco Overseas Company B.V. Netherlands 100% Purchasing and other services € 34,487,280
Aramco Services Company USA 100% Purchasing, engineering and US$ 1,000
other services
Aramco Trading Company Saudi Arabia 100% Importing/exporting refined products SAR 131,250,000
Aramco Trading Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore 100% Marketing and sales support US$ 4,500,000
ARLANXEO Holding B.V. Netherlands 100% Development, manufacture, US$ 34
and marketing of
high-performance rubber
Bolanter Corporation N.V. Curaçao 100% Crude oil storage US$ 30,000
Excellent Performance Chemicals Co LLC Saudi Arabia 100% Petrochemical manufacture and sales SAR 1,000,000
Motiva Enterprises LLC USA 100% Refining and marketing US$ 8,008,682,420
Pandlewood Corporation N.V. Curaçao 100% Financing US$ 6,000
Pengerang Refining Company Sdn. Bhd Malaysia 50% Refining MYR 6,457,182,000
Rabigh Refining and Petrochemical Company Saudi Arabia 37.5% Refining and petrochemical SAR 8,760,000,000
Sadara Chemical Company Saudi Arabia 65% Petrochemical US$ 9,500,000,000
Saudi Aramco Asia Company, Ltd. Saudi Arabia 100% Investments SAR 500,000
Saudi Aramco Capital Company Limited Guernsey 100% Investment SAR 500,000
Saudi Aramco Sukuk Company Saudi Arabia 100% Investment SAR 500,000
Saudi Aramco Total Refining and Petrochemical Company Saudi Arabia 62.5% Refining and petrochemical US$ 2,200,000,000
Saudi Refining, Inc. USA 100% Refining and marketing US$ 1,000
S-Oil Corporation South Korea 61.6%1 Refining Won 291,512,000
Vela International Marine Limited Liberia 100% Marine management US$ 1,000
and transportation
Yanbu Aramco Sinopec Refining Company Ltd. Saudi Arabia 62.5% Refining SAR 5,851,215,600
1. Economic interest in S-Oil on a fully diluted basis. On a non-diluted basis, the Company’s shareholding in S-Oil is 63.4%.
For more information on Saudi Aramco’s subsidiaries, see Section 7: Consolidated Financial Statements – Note 36.
noitamrofni
lagel
dna
laicnanfi
lanoitidda
[Page 215]
213
Details of shares and debt instruments issued for each material subsidiary
Material subsidiaries with tradeable shares or debt instruments as at December 31, 2019 are as follows.
Material subsidiaries with tradeable shares
Total no. Total no. Total no. No. of
Country of of authorized of ordinary of preference issued ordinary
incorporation shares shares shares shares Par Value
Rabigh Refining and Petrochemical Company Saudi Arabia 876,000,000 876,000,000 – 876,000,000 SAR 10
S-Oil Corporation South Korea 240,000,000 180,000,000 60,000,000 112,582,792 Won 2,500
Material subsidiaries with tradeable debt instruments
Balance as at
Country of Debt December 31,
All amounts in millions SAR unless otherwise stated incorporation instruments 20191
Motiva Enterprises LLC USA Debentures 7,680
S-Oil Corporation South Korea Debentures 10,206
Sadara Chemical Company (through its subsidiary Sadara Basic Services Company) Saudi Arabia Sukuk 6,478
Saudi Aramco Sukuk Company Saudi Arabia Sukuk 11,250
Saudi Aramco Total Refining and Petrochemical Company
(through its wholly owned subsidiary Arabian Aramco Total Services) Saudi Arabia Sukuk 2,530
1. Represents 100% of the balance as reported in the respective subsidiaries’ balance sheet.
Government consents, licenses and certificates
Saudi Aramco holds several operational and regulatory licenses and certificates from the relevant competent authorities that are periodically
renewed. The following table lists the licenses and certificates currently held by Saudi Aramco that Saudi Aramco considers material in the context
of its business.
Details of material regulatory and operational licenses and certificates obtained by Saudi Aramco
Company Issuing authority License Effective date Expiry date
Saudi Arabian Oil The Government The Concession December 24, 2017 Initial period of 40 years, with expiry date of
Company December 24, 2057, which will be extended
by the Government for 20 years provided
Saudi Aramco satisfies certain conditions
commensurate with current operating
practices. In addition, the Concession may be
extended for an additional 40 years beyond
the prior 60-year period subject to Saudi
Aramco and the Government agreeing on
the terms of the extension.
SATORP The Government SATORP Feedstock Various Ministerial Letters in connection with
Allocation letters the supply of gas products to SATORP.
Material agreements
Saudi Aramco has entered into a number of agreements for the purposes of its business. The following is a summary of those agreements that
Saudi Aramco considers material to its business. Saudi Aramco believes that all such agreements, in addition to the key provisions thereunder,
have been included in this Section and that there are no other agreements that are material in the context of its business. These summaries
do not purport to describe all the applicable terms and conditions of such agreements and are qualified in their entirety by the respective
agreements. In addition, please see also below for details regarding Saudi Aramco’s financing agreements (Financing Agreements and Guarantees).
The Concession
Background
The Arabian American Oil Company Concession Agreement was ratified on 4/2/1352H (corresponding to May 29, 1933) and granted Saudi Aramco’s
predecessor certain exclusive rights, including the right to explore, drill, recover and treat crude oil and other hydrogen and carbon compounds in liquid
or gaseous state within certain areas of the Kingdom (which were revised and grew over time), with limited territorial exceptions. Pursuant to Royal
Decree No. M/8 dated 4/4/1409H (corresponding to November 13, 1988) approving Saudi Aramco’s original articles, Saudi Aramco enjoyed all the
privileges and rights provided under the Arabian American Oil Company Concession Agreement, and all subsequent supplementary documents,
agreements, governmental orders and decisions in connection therewith (collectively, the “Original Concession”). Effective 6/4/1439H (corresponding to
December 24, 2017), and in accordance with the Hydrocarbons Law, the Government, represented by the Minister of Energy, and Saudi Aramco entered
into the revised Concession Agreement (the “Concession”), which was adopted under Royal Decree No. (M/12) dated 18/1/1441H (corresponding
to September 17, 2019) and replaced and superseded in its entirety the Original Concession on such date (the “Concession Effective Date”). Further, on
20/1/1441H (corresponding to September 19, 2019), and in accordance with the Hydrocarbons Law, the Government, represented by the Minister of
Energy, and Saudi Aramco entered into an amendment to the Concession, with effect from January 1, 2020) (the “Concession Amendment”).
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 216]
214
Grant of rights
The Government grants Saudi Aramco the following rights to be exercised at Saudi Aramco’s own responsibility during the term of
the Concession:
• the exclusive right to explore, drill, prospect, appraise, develop, extract, recover and produce Hydrocarbons in the Concession Area;
• the non-exclusive right to manufacture, refine and treat production and to market, sell, transport and export such production;
• the exclusive right to market and distribute Hydrocarbons, petroleum products and LPG in the Kingdom, with Saudi Aramco’s commitment
to meeting all the domestic market’s needs for such products in accordance with the consumption requirements thereof through domestic
production or imports in accordance with laws issued by the Government;
• the right to build, own and operate relevant facilities and assets as may be necessary or desirable to perform Saudi Aramco’s operations
within the Reserved Areas;
• certain rights to acquire and use land, water and other natural products in connection with Saudi Aramco’s operations;
• the right to purchase, lease, import or otherwise obtain all materials, equipment and any other supplies required for Saudi Aramco’s
operations;
• the right to conduct such other activity related to the foregoing subject to the provisions of the Concession and applicable law; and
• the right to receive Government assistance in securing the rights granted in the Concession, obtaining permits, licenses and other special
approvals and obtaining access, rights of way and water rights from third parties necessary for Saudi Aramco’s operations.
Under the Concession, Saudi Aramco is required to obtain the necessary licenses, permits and approvals that may be required pursuant to the
Hydrocarbons Law, the Law of Gas Supplies and Pricing and the regulations issued pursuant to these laws. All Hydrocarbons in the Kingdom are
owned by the Kingdom, and upon extraction or recovery of such Hydrocarbons by Saudi Aramco, title to such Hydrocarbons shall automatically
pass to Saudi Aramco at the ownership transfer point. Saudi Aramco has no rights to any natural resources existing in the Concession Area other
than Hydrocarbons except as otherwise provided in the Concession.
The rights granted to Saudi Aramco under the Concession are subject to the Hydrocarbons Law and other applicable law, including production
decisions issued by the Government pursuant to its sovereign authority. Saudi Aramco may not sell to any entity any Hydrocarbons or derivatives
therefrom in violation of decisions the Government considers necessary for the protection of supreme security interests for the Kingdom in times
of war or other emergency in international relations.
Term
The Concession will remain effective for 40 years from the Concession Effective Date, unless terminated earlier in accordance with its terms.
The Government will issue a decision to extend the Concession for a period of 20 years on the 30th anniversary of the Concession Effective Date,
provided Saudi Aramco has fulfilled the following conditions: (a) Saudi Aramco has exerted reasonable efforts to maximize reserves and their
recovery in the Concession Area, taking into consideration production decisions and Hydrocarbons market conditions; (b) Saudi Aramco has
conducted its operations in a manner that (i) is economically efficient, (ii) enhances the productivity of the reservoirs in the long term in the
Concession Area and (iii) supports good management of Hydrocarbons, in all cases, according to the Hydrocarbons Law; and (c) Saudi Aramco
generally has conducted its activities and operations in the Kingdom in an economically efficient manner thereby enhancing the efficiency of
the Kingdom’s economy.
If the Concession is extended as described in the previous paragraph, the Concession may be amended and extended for an additional 40 years
following the 60th anniversary of the Concession Effective Date, if Saudi Aramco provides the Government with notice confirming its intent to
extend the Concession, at any time from the beginning of the 50th anniversary until the end of the 53rd anniversary of the Concession Effective
Date, provided that the parties undertake exclusive negotiations for a two year period (which may be extended or reduced by the parties),
commencing at the end of the 53rd anniversary of the Concession Effective Date, to reach an agreement on the terms and conditions of such
amendment and extension. If the Government and Saudi Aramco are unable to reach agreement on the amendment and extension during
such exclusive negotiation period, and the Government elects to negotiate with any third party to enter into an agreement with respect to
any Hydrocarbons activities or operations in the Concession Area, Saudi Aramco will have a priority right to enter into an agreement with the
Government under the same terms and conditions as agreed between the Government and such third party, provided that Saudi Aramco
notifies the Government of its desire to exercise the priority right within 120 days of its receipt of a written notice from the Government that
includes the entire draft agreement with such third party with respect to such Hydrocarbons activities and operations.
Royalty and taxes
Through December 31, 2016, the royalty payable to the Government under the Original Concession consisted of an amount equal to (a) 20%
of the value of crude oil and the crude equivalent of refined products sold as exports, (b) 12.5% of the proceeds received from the sale of gas,
(c) 12.5% of $0.035 per mmBTU of natural gas processed in the production of gas derivatives and (d) a certain amount per quantity of crude
oil and the crude equivalent of refined products sold in-Kingdom. Pursuant to these requirements, Saudi Aramco incurred royalties of
SAR 101.3 billion ($27.0 billion) for the year ended December 31, 2016.
noitamrofni
lagel
dna
laicnanfi
lanoitidda
[Page 217]
215
Commencing January 1, 2017, royalties payable to the Government with respect to Saudi Aramco’s operations are calculated as follows:
• With respect to Saudi Aramco’s production of crude oil and condensates, including those used by Saudi Aramco in its operations, royalties
are calculated based on a progressive scheme applied to crude oil and condensate production value. Production will be valued based on
Saudi Aramco’s official selling prices. An effective royalty rate will be applied to production value and will be based each month on the
average daily price quotes for Brent crude on the Intercontinental Exchange (or any successor exchange) for each day during such period.
The effective royalty rate will be determined based on a baseline rate of 20% applied to the value of production at prices up to $70 per barrel,
a marginal rate of 40% applied to the value of production at prices above $70 per barrel up to $100 per barrel and a marginal rate of 50%
applied to the value of production at prices above $100 per barrel.
• With respect to Saudi Aramco’s production of natural gas, ethane and NGLs, excluding those volumes used by Saudi Aramco for upstream
operations and related operations (including transportation, pipelines and storage and export facilities, fractionation plants, gas and NGLs
plants), royalties are calculated based on a flat royalty rate of 12.5% applied to a factor established by the Ministry of Energy. As at December
31, 2019, the factor to which this royalty is applied is $0.035 per mmBTU for NGLs (propane, butane and natural gasoline) and $0.00 per
mmBTU for natural gas (methane) and ethane. The Minister of Energy may amend the price on which such values are based, taking into
account the price that achieves the targeted internal rate of return set by the Minister of Energy in coordination with Saudi Aramco.
Commencing January 1, 2020, the Concession Amendment amended the royalties payable to the Government with respect to Saudi Aramco’s
production of crude oil and condensates, including those used by Saudi Aramco in its operations, so that the effective royalty rate will be
determined based on a baseline rate of 15% applied to the value of production at prices up to $70 per barrel, a marginal rate of 45% applied
to the value of production at prices above $70 per barrel up to $100 per barrel and a marginal rate of 80% applied to the value of production
at prices above $100 per barrel.
In order to increase gas production to meet the needs of the Kingdom, the Government may choose not to collect royalties on natural gas,
NGLs (including ethane) and condensates for a period specified by the Government with respect to any field as required by the economics
of such field’s development. Pursuant to the Ministry of Energy’s authority under the Concession, on February 25, 2018, the Ministry of Energy
decided not to collect royalties from the Company on condensate production for a grace period of five years beginning on January 1, 2018.
On September 17, 2019, the Ministry of Energy issued Ministerial Resolution No. 1/422/1441, dated 18/1/1441H (corresponding to September 17,
2019), which extends the period for which Saudi Aramco will not be obligated to pay royalties on condensate production after the current
five-year period for an additional 10-year period, which may be further extended for subsequent 10-year periods, unless the Government
determines the economics impacting gas field development do not warrant such an extension.
The Government has the option to take all or part of the royalty in kind from the produced Hydrocarbons. Saudi Aramco is subject to the
Kingdom’s Income Tax Law. Income tax is due for payment monthly.
Purchase agreement in connection with the proposed acquisition of the PIF’s 70% equity interest in SABIC
On March 27, 2019, the Company entered into a purchase agreement with PIF to acquire PIF’s 70% equity interest in SABIC for total
consideration of $69.1 billion provided that the purchase price for the acquisition would be paid on the closing date in the form of a cash
payment equal to 50% of the purchase price (to be adjusted for certain expenses) and a seller loan in an amount equal to 50% of the purchase
price. On October 6, 2019, Saudi Aramco and the PIF agreed to amend the payment terms to provide that, on the closing date, 36% of the
purchase price (to be adjusted for certain expenses) will be paid in cash and 64% will be paid in the form of a seller loan. The seller loan will be
secured by four separate promissory notes issued by the Company in favor of the PIF. In accordance with the terms of the purchase agreement,
the Company will pay a loan charge to the PIF on the closing date in the form of a cash payment equal to SAR 1,875 million ($500 million) and
the issuance of five additional promissory notes in an aggregate principal amount of $2.5 billion.
The seller loan and the balance of the loan charge secured by the promissory notes will become due and payable as follows:
i. on or before 30 September 2020, a loan charge of $250 million;
ii. on or before 30 September 2021, an amount equal to 16% of the purchase price plus a loan charge of $250 million;
iii. on or before 30 September 2022, an amount equal to 16% of the purchase price;
iv. on or before 30 September 2023, an amount equal to 16% of the purchase price plus a loan charge of $750 million;
v. on or before 30 September 2024, an amount equal to 16% of the purchase price plus a loan charge of $750 million; and
vi. on or before 30 September 2025, a loan charge of $500 million.
Each promissory note will be fully transferable and assignable and may be pledged by the PIF. However, if the PIF receives any offer or
commitment of financing which would include a transfer of a promissory note, Saudi Aramco may within 30 days of receiving notice of the offer
or commitment notify the PIF in writing of its intent to purchase all or a portion of the promissory notes to be transferred on the same terms.
To the extent Saudi Aramco does not elect to purchase the promissory notes to be transferred, the PIF may transfer such promissory notes
during the subsequent 120 day period. Saudi Aramco currently intends to repay the promissory notes in a phased manner through cash from
operations, external debt financing or a combination thereof.
The acquisition is currently expected to close in the first half of 2020.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 218]
216
Agreements with key customers
Other than one customer in 2016 which accounted for approximately 6% of Saudi Aramco’s revenue and other income related to sales, there
was no single customer that constituted 5% or more of Saudi Aramco’s revenue and other income related to sales in the years ended December 31,
2016, 2017, 2018 or 2019.
Agreements with key suppliers
Saudi Aramco purchases materials and services from local and international suppliers. There was no single supplier that constituted 5% or more
of the Saudi Aramco’s total purchases in the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017, 2018 or 2019.
Financing agreements and guarantees
The following table sets out the material financing agreements and guarantees entered into by Saudi Aramco for the purposes of its business.
Details of material financing agreements and guarantees
Type of Financing Termination Date Key Legal Terms
GMTN Program:
$1 billion senior unsecured notes April 16, 2022 Customary covenants and events of default
$2 billion senior unsecured notes April 16, 2024 Customary covenants and events of default
$3 billion senior unsecured notes April 16, 2029 Customary covenants and events of default
$3 billion senior unsecured notes April 16, 2039 Customary covenants and events of default
$3 billion senior unsecured notes April 16, 2049 Customary covenants and events of default
Sukuk Program:
SAR 11.25 billion sukuk April 10, 2024 Customary covenants and events of default
Revolving credit facilities:
5-year U.S. Dollar conventional facility (for an amount of $6 billion) March 26, 2022 Customary covenants and events of default
5-year SAR Murabaha facility (for an amount of SAR 7.5 billion ($2 billion)) March 26, 2022 Customary covenants and events of default
364-day U.S. Dollar conventional facility (for an amount of $1 billion) March 26, 2022 Customary covenants and events of default
364-day SAR Murabaha facility (for an amount of SAR 3.75 billion ($1 billion)) March 26, 2022 Customary covenants and events of default
Others:
Sadara completion guarantee December 31, 2020 n/a
Petro Rabigh completion guarantee July 1, 2020 n/a
Refer to Section 7: Financial Statements – Note 19 Borrowings, and Section 8: Additional financial and legal information – Total indebtedness
of Saudi Aramco, for further details in relation to the material financing arrangements. Refer to Section 7: Financial Statements – Note 27
Contingencies for further details in relation to the material guarantees.
Intellectual property
Saudi Aramco assesses, develops and incorporates new technology in a manner tailored to Saudi Aramco’s operations to ensure the long-term
sustainability of its business, enhance its operational efficiency, increase profitability and reduce the environmental impact of its operations.
The scale of Saudi Aramco’s hydrocarbon reserves and operational capabilities enable it to realize significant benefits and value from otherwise
marginal technological benefits.
Saudi Aramco focuses its technology initiatives in three areas: upstream, downstream and sustainability. Upstream technology development is
directed primarily to improving methods for discovering new hydrocarbon reserves, improving oil recoveries, increasing productivity, discovering
novel catalysts and reducing lifting costs. Downstream technology development is dedicated primarily to maximizing value across the hydrocarbon
chain and finding new and improved methods of producing products. Sustainability technology development is aimed at growing non-fuel
applications for crude oil, sustaining low carbon intensity crude oil, advancing sustainable transport and driving high-impact low carbon intensity
solutions.
noitamrofni
lagel
dna
laicnanfi
lanoitidda
[Page 219]
217
Litigation
From time to time, Saudi Aramco is subject to various claims, lawsuits, regulatory investigations and other legal matters arising in the ordinary
course of business, including contractual claims relating to construction projects and agreements to render services undertaken by Saudi Aramco,
claims for title to land and environmental claims. Additionally, Saudi Aramco in the past has been subject to antitrust claims in the United States.
Furthermore, exports of crude oil, refined products and petrochemicals by Saudi Aramco or its affiliates to foreign countries may be affected
by litigation, disputes or agreements that lead to the imposition of import trade measures, including anti-dumping and countervailing duties,
safeguard measures, import licensing and customs requirements. The possibility and effect of any such measures will depend on the domestic
laws in the relevant country to which the applicable products are being exported and applicable international trade agreements.
The outcome of litigation and other legal matters is inherently uncertain. Saudi Aramco believes it has valid defenses to the legal matters
currently pending against it. Actual outcomes of these legal and regulatory proceedings may materially differ from current estimates. To date,
none of these types of litigation matters has had a material impact on Saudi Aramco’s operations or financial position. As at December 31, 2019,
there is no litigation or claim (including any pending or threatened litigation) or any ongoing investigations which may have a material effect on
Saudi Aramco’s or any of its subsidiaries’ business or financial position.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 220]
218
Forecasts and forward-looking statements
This Annual Report may contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to Saudi Aramco’s financial position, results of operations and
business and certain of Saudi Aramco’s plans, intentions, expectations, assumptions, goals and beliefs. These statements include all matters
that are not historical fact and generally, but not always, may be identified by the use of words such as “believes”, “expects”, “are expected to”,
“anticipates”, “intends”, “estimates”, “should”, “will”, “shall”, “may”, “is likely to”, “plans”, “outlook” or similar expressions, including variations
and the negatives thereof or comparable terminology.
Prospective investors should be aware that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and that Saudi Aramco’s
actual financial position, results of operations and business and the development of the industries in which it operates may differ significantly
from those made in or suggested by these forward-looking statements. In addition, even if Saudi Aramco’s financial position, results
of operations and business and the development of the industries in which it operates are consistent with these forward-looking statements,
those results or developments may not be indicative of results or developments in subsequent periods.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from Saudi Aramco’s expectations are contained in cautionary statements in this
Annual Report and include, among other things, the following:
• oil and gas supply, demand and price fluctuations;
• global economic market conditions;
• competition in the industries in which Saudi Aramco operates;
• conditions affecting the transportation of products;
• operational risk and hazards common in the oil and gas, refining and petrochemicals industries;
• the cyclical nature of the oil and gas, refining and petrochemicals industries;
• weather conditions;
• political and social instability and unrest and actual or potential armed conflicts in the MENA region and other areas;
• managing Saudi Aramco’s growth;
• risks in connection with projects under development and recent and future acquisitions and joint ventures, including with respect to SABIC;
• managing Saudi Aramco’s subsidiaries, joint operations, joint ventures, associates and entities in which it holds a minority interest;
• Saudi Aramco’s exposure to interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk;
• risks related to operating in a regulated industry and changes to oil, gas, environmental or other regulations that impact the industries in
which Saudi Aramco operates; and
• international trade litigation, disputes or agreements.
The discussion of risk factors under Section 5: Risk contains a more complete discussion of the factors that could affect Saudi Aramco’s future
performance and the industries in which it operates. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events described
in this Annual Report may not occur.
We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or
otherwise. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or to persons acting on our behalf are expressly
qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements referred to above.
noitamrofni
lagel
dna
laicnanfi
lanoitidda
[Page 221]
219
Terms and abbreviations
Currencies Miscellaneous abbreviations KPIs
Key Performance Indicators
SAR/Riyal CISC
Saudi Arabian riyal Climate Initiatives Steering Committee LNA
Leading National Academy
$/USD/US$/Dollar CMA
U.S. Dollar Capital Market Authority LNG
Liquefied natural gas CO
Units of measurement 2
Carbon dioxide LTI
Barrel (bbl) Lost time injuries
CO e
Barrels of crude oil, condensate or refined 2
Carbon dioxide equivalent MENA
products
Middle East and North Africa
ERM
boe
Enterprise Risk Management MEWA
Barrels of oil equivalent
Ministry of Environment, Water and
ESG
bpd Agriculture of the Kingdom
Environmental, Social and Governance
Barrels per day
MTBE
FSIA
bscf Methyl tertiary butyl ether
U.S. Foreign Sovereign Immunity Act
Billion standard cubic feet
NGL/NGLs
GDP
bscfd Natural Gas Liquids
Gross Domestic Product
Billion standard cubic feet per day
NOCs
GHG
BTU National oil companies
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
British thermal unit
NSPA
H
mboed National Specialized Partnership Academies
Hijri calendar
Thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day
OECD
HEM
mbpd Organisation for Economic Co-operation
Human Energy Management
Thousand barrels per day and Development
HGP
mmbbl OGCI
Hawiyah gas plant
Million barrels Oil and Gas Climate Initiative
HSE
mmboe OPEC
Health, Safety and Environment
Million barrels of oil equivalent Organization of the Petroleum Exporting
IAS Countries
mmboed
International Accounting Standard(s)
Million barrels of oil equivalent per day PIF
IASB Public Investment Fund of Saudi Arabia
mmbpd
International Accounting Standards Board
Million barrels per day PTP
IFRS Petro-Technical Professional
mmBTU
International Financial Reporting Standard(s)
Million British thermal units R&D
IGCC Research and development
mmscf
Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle
Million standard cubic feet SMS
iktva Safety Management System
mmscfd
In-Kingdom Total Value Add
Million standard cubic feet per day SOCPA
IOCs Saudi Organization for Certified Public
MW
International oil companies Accountants
Megawatt
IPIECA SPE-PRMS
per day
International Petroleum Industry Society of Petroleum Engineers – Petroleum
Volumes are converted into a daily basis
Environmental Conservation Association Resources Management System
using a calendar year (Gregorian)
KAPSARC STEM
scf
King Abdullah Petroleum Studies Science, Technology, Engineering and Math
Standard cubic feet
and Research Center
TRC
tscf
KFUPM Total Recordable Case
Trillion standard cubic feet
King Fahad University of Petroleum
VAT
and Minerals
Value added tax
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 222]
220
Technical Terms Net production capacity
Saudi Aramco’s equity share of its gross
Arabian Extra Light
production capacity, calculated by multiplying
Crude oil with API gravity of 36° to 40° and
the gross production capacity of each facility
sulfur content between 0.5% and 1.3%.
in which Saudi Aramco has an interest by
Arabian Heavy Saudi Aramco’s percentage equity ownership
Crude oil with API gravity less than in the entity that owns the facility.
29° and sulfur content greater than 2.9%.
Net refining capacity
Arabian Light Saudi Aramco’s equity share of its gross
Crude oil with API gravity of 32° to 36° refining capacity, calculated by multiplying
and sulfur content between 1.3% and 2.2%. the gross refining capacity of each refinery
in which Saudi Aramco has an interest by
Arabian Medium
Saudi Aramco’s percentage equity ownership
Crude oil with API gravity of 29° to 32°
in the entity that owns the refinery.
and sulfur content between 2.2% and 2.9%.
NGLs
Arabian Super Light
Natural gas liquids, which are liquid or
Crude oil with API gravity more than 40°
liquefied hydrocarbons produced in the
and sulfur content less than 0.5%.
manufacture, purification and stabilization
Condensate of natural gas. For purposes of reserves,
Light hydrocarbon substances produced ethane is included in NGLs. For purposes
with raw gas which condenses into liquid of production, ethane is reported separately
at normal temperatures and pressures and excluded from NGLs.
associated with surface production equipment.
Production costs
Delineation The sum of operating costs and depreciation,
A process by which new wells are drilled reflecting both the erosion of asset value over
in order to determine the boundaries time on an accounting basis and the cost of
of a discovered oil or gas field, both its areal operating the business.
extent and its vertical hydrocarbon column.
Proved reserves
Gross refining capacity Those quantities of liquids and gas, which,
The total combined refining capacity of by analysis of geoscience and engineering
Saudi Aramco and the joint ventures and other data, can be estimated with reasonable
entities in which it owns an equity interest. certainty to be economically producible –
from a given date forward, from known
Lifting costs
reservoirs, and under existing economic
Oil and gas operations (i) production related
conditions, operating methods and
expenses; (ii) taxes other than income taxes
government regulations – prior to the time
(if applicable); and (iii) production related
at which contracts providing the right to
general and administrative expenses. Lifting
operate expire, unless evidence indicates
costs exclude exploration, royalty, R&D and
that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless
depreciation costs.
of whether deterministic or probabilistic
Liquids methods are used for the estimation. The
Crude oil, condensate and NGLs. project to extract the hydrocarbons must
have commenced or the operator must be
LPG/LPGs
reasonably certain that it will commence the
Liquefied petroleum gas, which is a mixture
project within a reasonable time.
of saturated and unsaturated hydrocarbons,
with up to five carbon atoms, used as Reserves life
household fuel. Calculated on a barrel of oil equivalent basis
by dividing proved reserves as at a given
MSC
year-end by production for that year.
Maximum Sustainable Capacity – the average
maximum number of barrels per day of crude Throughput
oil that can be produced for one year during The volume of crude oil processed by
any future planning period, after taking into a refinery and converted into intermediate
account all planned capital expenditures and and finished products.
maintenance, repair and operating costs,
and after being given three months to make
operational adjustments.
noitamrofni
lagel
dna
laicnanfi
lanoitidda
[Page 223]
221
Glossary
Affiliate CMA D&M
Except with respect to financial information, The Capital Market Authority, including, DeGolyer & MacNaughton, Saudi Aramco’s
the term Affiliate means a person who where the context permits, any committee, independent petroleum consultant.
controls another person or is controlled by sub-committee, employee or agent to whom
Domestic
that other person, or who is under common any function of the CMA may be delegated.
Refers to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
control with that person by a third person.
Companies Law
In any of the preceding, control could be Domestic Price The Companies Law, issued under Royal
direct or indirect. Certain prices for the domestic sale of gas
Decree No. M/3, dated 28/1/1437H
hydrocarbons including those for Regulated
With respect to financial information, the (corresponding to November 10, 2015), Gas Products.
term Affiliate is defined by IFRS, meaning the as amended.
Company’s subsidiaries, joint arrangements Dow
Company
and associates. Dow Inc.
Saudi Arabian Oil Company.
API Energy intensity
Concession
The American Petroleum Institute, which An index for measuring the total energy
As defined in Section 8: Additional
is the major United States trade association consumed to generate a unit of product,
Information – Material Agreements –
for the oil and gas industry. represented in thousand BTUs per total
The Concession.
production in barrel of oil equivalent.
ARLANXEO
Concession Amendment
ARLANXEO Holding B.V., a wholly owned Equalization prices
As defined in Section 8: Additional
specialty chemicals subsidiary. Prices are established separately by the
Information – Material Agreements –
Ministry of Energy for each relevant liquid
Associate The Concession.
product using a combination of either
An entity over which the Company has
Concession Area internationally recognized indices or, where
significant influence but does not control,
The territorial lands and maritime areas of the relevant, Saudi Aramco’s official selling
generally reflected by a shareholding of
Kingdom except in the Excluded Areas. price and, depending on the relevant
between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
liquid product, on the basis of export parity,
Significant influence is the power to Concession Effective Date
import parity or a combination of both.
participate in the financial and operating As defined in Section 8: Additional
policy decisions of the investee but is not Information – Material Agreements – Exchange or Tadawul
control or joint control over those policies. The Concession. The Saudi Stock Exchange, the sole entity
authorized in the Kingdom to act as
ATC Control
a securities exchange.
Aramco Trading Company. Except with respect to financial information,
the term Control means the ability to Excluded Areas
Auditor
influence the actions or decisions of The limited area excluded from Saudi
PricewaterhouseCoopers Public Accountants,
another person through, whether directly or Aramco’s rights under the Concession,
the independent external auditor of
indirectly, alone or with a relative or affiliate consisting of: (a) the boundaries of the
Saudi Aramco.
(a) holding 30% or more of the voting rights Holy Mosques in Makkah Al-Mukarramah
Blended Price in a company, or (b) having the right to and Madinah Al-Munawwarah, (b) the
Pursuant to Council of Ministers Resolution appoint 30% or more of the members of partitioned territory and its adjoining
No. 370, dated 10/7/1439H (corresponding the governing body; “controller” shall be offshore areas in accordance with the
to March 27, 2018) and the Ministerial construed accordingly. agreements between the Kingdom and
Resolution issued by the Ministry of Energy, the State of Kuwait and (c) the common
With respect to financial information, the
in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, zone in the Red Sea in accordance with
term Control is defined by IFRS: the Company
No. 01-5928-1439, dated as at 27/8/1439H the agreement between the Kingdom and
controls an entity when it is exposed to,
(corresponding to May 13, 2018), effective the Republic of Sudan.
or has rights to, variable returns from its
March 17, 2018, the Kingdom established
involvement with the entity and has the Flaring intensity
the price due to licensees for the domestic
ability to affect those returns through its Quantity of gas flared per barrel of oil
sale of Regulated Gas Products.
power over the entity. equivalent (scf/Production boe) within our
Board facilities.
Corporate Governance Regulations
The Board of Directors of the Company.
The Corporate Governance Regulations Foreign Investors
Bylaws issued pursuant to the CMA Board • Non-Saudi nationals who are not residents
The Bylaws of the Company, approved Resolution No. 8-16-2017, dated 16/5/1438H in the Kingdom; and
by Council of Ministers Resolution (corresponding to February 13, 2017),
• Institutions other than Qualified Foreign
No. 180 dated 1/4/1439H (corresponding as amended.
Investors incorporated outside the
to December 19, 2017), which came into
Council of Ministers Kingdom, in accordance with the QFI Rules
effect on January 1, 2018.
The cabinet of the Kingdom, which is led and the FSI Instructions.
Carbon intensity by the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques,
A measure of greenhouse gas emissions – the King, and includes HRH the Crown Prince
carbon dioxide (CO) equivalent per barrel of and other cabinet ministers.
2
oil equivalent.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS
[Page 224]
222
Foreign Strategic Investor GSPR Listing Rules
A foreign legal entity aiming to acquire The Law of Gas Supplies and Pricing The Listing Rules approved by the Board
a strategic interest in listed companies in enacted by Royal Decree No. M/36, dated of the CMA pursuant to its Resolution No.
accordance with the FSI Instructions. 25/6/1424H (corresponding to August 23, 3-123-2017, dated 9/4/1439H (corresponding
“Strategic interest” means the direct 2003), as amended. to December 27, 2017), as amended by the
ownership percentage in the listed CMA Board Resolution No. 1-04-2019 dated
HSE Committee
company’s shares, through which the owner 1/2/1441H (corresponding to September 30,
Health, Safety, and Environmental
aims to contribute to enhancing the financial 2019).
Committee.
or operating performance of the listed
Luberef
company. HSSE Committee Saudi Aramco Base Oil Company, a joint
Health, Safety, Security, and Environmental
FREP venture between Saudi Aramco and Jadwa
Committee.
Fujian Refining & Petrochemical Company Industrial Investment Company, which
Ltd., a joint venture established among Hydrocarbons acquired its share from Mobil in 2007.
Saudi Aramco Sino Company Ltd., Fujian Crude oil and other hydrogen and carbon
Material subsidiaries
Petrochemical Company Ltd. (itself a joint compounds in liquid or gaseous state.
As defined in Section 8: Additional
venture between Sinopec and the Fujian,
Hydrocarbons Law Information – Material Subsidiaries.
China provincial government) and
Law governing hydrocarbons, hydrocarbon
ExxonMobil China Petroleum & Methane Intensity
resources, and hydrocarbon operations
Petrochemical Company Ltd. Estimated methane emissions per volume of
existing within the territory of the Kingdom,
marketed natural gas expressed in
FSI Instructions enacted by Royal Decree No. M/37, dated
percentage terms.
Instructions for foreign strategic investors to 2/4/1439H (corresponding to December 20,
acquire strategic stakes in listed companies 2017), as amended. MGS
issued by the Board of the CMA pursuant to Master Gas System, an extensive network
IFRS
Resolution No. 3-65-2019 dated 17/10/1440H of pipelines that connects Saudi Aramco’s
International Financial Reporting Standards
(corresponding to June 17, 2019), as amended. key gas production and processing sites
that are endorsed in the Kingdom and other
throughout the Kingdom.
GCC standards and pronouncements endorsed
The Cooperation Council for the Arab States by SOCPA. Ministry of Energy
of the Gulf, consisting of the member states Ministry of Energy of the Kingdom.
Income Tax Law
of the Kingdom of Bahrain, State of Kuwait,
Income Tax Law issued under Royal Decree Ministry of Human Resources and Social
Sultanate of Oman, State of Qatar, Kingdom
No. M/1 dated 15/1/1425H (corresponding Development
of Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates.
to March 6, 2004) and its Implementing Ministry of Human Resources and Social
GDP Regulations issued under Ministerial Development of the Kingdom, formerly the
Gross domestic product (the broadest Resolution No. 1535 dated 11/6/1425H Ministry of Labor and Social Development.
quantitative measure of a nation’s total (corresponding to August 11, 2004),
Motiva
economic activity, representing the monetary as amended from time to time.
Motiva Enterprises LLC.
value of all goods and services produced
IPO
within a nation’s geographic borders over Natural gas
The initial public offering of the Company.
a specified period of time). Dry gas produced at Saudi Aramco gas plants
Joint arrangement and sold within the Kingdom.
General Assemblies
Term refers to either a joint operation
Any Ordinary General Assembly or Original Concession
or a joint venture.
Extraordinary General Assembly. As defined in Section 8: Additional
Joint operation Information – Material Agreements –
GMTN Program
Arises where the investors have rights to The Concession.
On April 1, 2019, Saudi Aramco established
the assets and obligations for the liabilities
a global medium term note program OSCO Rules
of a joint arrangement.
pursuant to which it may from time to time The Rules on the Offer of Securities and
issue notes. Joint venture Continuing Obligations issued by the board
A type of joint arrangement whereby the of the CMA pursuant to CMA Board
Government
parties that have joint control of the Resolution No. 3-123-2017 dated 9/4/1439H
The Government of the Kingdom
arrangement have rights to the net assets (corresponding to December 27, 2017) based
(and “Governmental” shall be interpreted
of the joint arrangement. on the Capital Market Law, as amended by
accordingly). In the context of acting
CMA Board Resolution No. 1-104-2019 dated
as a Shareholder of Saudi Aramco, the LANXESS
1/2/1441H (corresponding to September 30,
Government is the State. LANXESS Deutschland GmbH.
2019).
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Listing
Paris Agreement
Consists of CO, methane, nitrous oxide, Admission of all the shares to listing and
2 An agreement within the United Nations
hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons to trading on the Exchange in accordance
Framework Convention on Climate Change.
and sulfur hexafluoride. with the Listing Rules.
noitamrofni
lagel
dna
laicnanfi
lanoitidda
[Page 225]
223
Petro Rabigh SASREF Sinopec
Rabigh Refining and Petrochemical Company, Saudi Aramco Jubail Refinery Company, China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation.
a venture established by Saudi Aramco previously Saudi Aramco Shell Refinery
SO emissions
and Sumitomo Chemical Co., Ltd. in 2005, Company. 2
Amount of sulfur dioxide released from the
which is a publicly traded company listed
SATORP combustion of fuels containing sulfur and
on Tadawul.
Saudi Aramco Total Refining and emitted from process combustion stacks.
PRefChem Petrochemical Company, a joint venture
S-Oil
PRefChem Petrochemical and PRefChem established by Saudi Aramco and Total
S-Oil Corporation.
Refining. Refining Saudi Arabia SAS in 2008.
Stellar
PRefChem Petrochemical Saudi Aramco
Stellar Insurance, Ltd.
Pengerang Petrochemical Company Sdn. Bhd. Saudi Arabian Oil Company, together with
its consolidated subsidiaries, and where the Subsidiaries
PRefChem Refining
context requires, its joint operations, joint Except with respect to financial information,
Pengerang Refining Company Sdn. Bhd.
ventures and associates. the term subsidiaries means the companies
QFI Rules that Saudi Aramco controls through its ability
Any reference to “us”, “we” or “our” refers
The Rules for Qualified Foreign Financial to influence the actions or decisions of
to Saudi Aramco except where otherwise
Institutions Investment in Listed shares issued another person through, whether directly or
stated.
pursuant to CMA Board Resolution No. indirectly, alone or with a relative or affiliate
1-42-2015, dated 15/7/1436H (corresponding Scope 1 (i) holding 30% or more of the voting rights
to 4 May 2018G), as most recently amended Direct emissions, which include (a) fuels in a company or (ii) having the right to
by CMA Board Resolution No. 3-65-2019, combusted in stationary sources on-site, appoint 30% or more of the members of
dated 14/10/1440H (corresponding to (b) flaring, (c) equipment blowdown, the governing body of a company.
17 June 2019G). (d) process vents, such as storage tanks and
With respect to financial information, the
dehydration units and (e) fugitive emissions
Regulated Gas Products term subsidiaries is defined by IFRS, meaning
from leaking components.
Gas hydrocarbons which are subject to entities over which the Company has control.
the Kingdom’s gas pricing regime, including Scope 2
Substantial Shareholder
natural gas, ethane and NGLs (propane, Indirect emissions, which account for GHG
A Shareholder that owns 5% or more of
butane and natural gasoline). emissions from the generation of electricity
Saudi Aramco’s shares.
that is purchased or otherwise brought into
Reliability
the organizational boundary of the Company Sukuk Program
Total products volume shipped/delivered
and steam that is consumed by the Company. A Saudi domestic sukuk program established
within 24 hours of the scheduled time,
by Saudi Aramco on 22/6/1438H
divided by the total products volume Senior Executives/
(corresponding to March 21, 2017) for the
committed. Any delays caused by factors that Management Committee
issuance of up to $10 billion (SAR 37.5 billion)
are under our control (e.g., terminal, pipeline, The members of the senior management of
in aggregate nominal amount of Sukuk.
stabilization, or production) negatively Saudi Aramco holding the title of President
affect the score, whereas delays caused by (CEO) or Senior Vice President. Sumed Company
conditions that are beyond our control, The Arab Petroleum Pipeline Company.
Senior Management
such as adverse weather, are not considered.
The Senior Executives and other officers Sumitomo
A score of less than 100 percent indicates
of Saudi Aramco who, while subordinate Sumitomo Chemical Co., Ltd.
there were issues that negatively impacted
to the Senior Executives, are still involved
reliability. Total
in the management of Saudi Aramco and
Total S.A.
Reserved Areas participate in driving its strategies, decisions
The areas reserved for Saudi Aramco’s or operations. Total Recordable Case Frequency
operations within the Concession Area. Sum of recordable cases that occurred in
Senior Unsecured Notes
the workplace per 200,000 work hours.
SABIC On April 16, 2019, Saudi Aramco issued
Saudi Basic Industries Corporation. $12.0 billion in aggregate principal amount Unconventional oil and gas
of senior unsecured notes under the GMTN Term refers to the oil and gas resources
SADA
Program comprising five tranches, all of which cannot be explored, developed and
Saudi Arabian Drilling Academy.
which are payable semi-annually in arrear: produced by conventional processes just in
Sadara $1.0 billion 2.750% senior notes due 2022; using the natural pressure of the wells and
Sadara Chemical Company, a joint venture $2.0 billion 2.875% senior notes due 2024; pumping or compression operations.
established by Saudi Aramco and Dow Saudi $3.0 billion 3.500% senior notes due 2029;
YASREF
Arabia B.V. in 2011. $3.0 billion 4.250% senior notes due 2039
Yanbu’ Aramco Sinopec Refinery Company
and $3.0 billion 4.375% senior notes due 2049.
SAMREF Limited, a joint venture established by Saudi
Saudi Aramco Mobil Refinery Company Shareholder Aramco and Sinopec Century Bright Capital
Limited, a joint venture established by the Any holder of shares. Investment (Amsterdam) B.V. in 2010.
Saudi Arabian Marketing and Refining
Shell
Company and Mobil Yanbu’ Refining
Royal Dutch Shell plc.
Company Inc. in 1982.
9102
tropeR
launnA
ocmarA
iduaS