SOURCE: Saudi Aramco — Annual Report 2021
TYPE: Annual Report
URL: https://www.aramco.com/-/media/publications/corporate-reports/annual-reports/saudi-aramco-ara-2021-english.pdf
============================================================

[Page 2]
Energy security
for a sustainable world
Aramco is one of the world's largest integrated energy
and chemicals companies, creating value across the
hydrocarbon chain and delivering societal
and economic benefits to the Kingdom and
communities who rely on the vital energy we supply.
We are committed to playing a leading role
in the energy transition. We have a responsibility
to help the world achieve a net-zero economy,
and our people are working hard to solve the
world's sustainability challenges.
For our customers, we are a supplier of choice.
For our shareholders, we provide long-term value creation.
For communities around the world, our ambition is to
provide reliable, affordable, sustainable energy.
[Page 3]
CCoonntteennttss
Aramco Corporate governance
1 History ...............................................................06 6 Board of Directors ..........................................104
Chairman’s message ........................................08 Senior Executives ...........................................108
President and CEO’s message .........................10 Board structure ..............................................112
2021 highlights .................................................12 Audit Committee report ................................117
Aramco’s operations ........................................14 Risk and HSE Committee report ...................119
Business model .................................................16 Nomination Committee statement ..............120
At a glance ........................................................20 Compensation Committee statement ..........121
Compensation and other interests ...............122
Business overview and strategy
Governance, risk and compliance ................126
2 Business overview ............................................24
Market overview ..............................................28 Additional financial and legal information
Strategy .............................................................29 7 Additional financial information ..................130
Reserves information .....................................137
Results and performance
Regulation of the oil and gas industry
3 Key 2021 metrics ..............................................36 in the Kingdom...............................................138
CFO’s message..................................................38 Additional legal information ........................143
Financial performance ....................................40 Forecasts and forward-looking
Upstream ...........................................................48 statements .......................................................156
Downstream .....................................................58 Terms and abbreviations ...............................157
Corporate ..........................................................70 Glossary ...........................................................159
Environmental, social and governance Consolidated financial statements
4 Aramco's approach to sustainability ..............74 8 Independent auditor’s report .......................166
Climate change and the energy transition ....76 Consolidated statement of income ..............174
Minimizing environmental impacts ...............78 Consolidated statement of
Accelerating human potential ........................80 comprehensive income .................................175
Growing societal value. ...................................82 Consolidated balance sheet ..........................176
Consolidated statement
Risk of changes in equity ......................................177
5 Risk management ............................................86 Consolidated statement
of cash flows ...................................................178
Risk factors ........................................................88
Notes to the consolidated
financial statements .......................................179
This Annual Report covers financial and operational
aspects of Aramco and is issued in both Arabic and
English. The print version is identical to its PDF
counterpart, which is available at aramco.com. The
Arabic version prevails in the event of any discrepancy.
The images in this document are representative of the
services provided by Aramco. Wherever possible,
sustainable printing techniques were used.
The information contained in Sections 1 – 7 of this
Annual Report constitutes the Board of Directors’ report.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 01
[Page 8]
History
Aramco's history dates back more than 85 years, when
a small group of intrepid adventurers set out to explore
the deserts of Saudi Arabia
The birth of Expansion Making a name
Arabian oil for itself
1933-1944 1945-1965 1966-1988
1933 Oil concession agreement signed 1948 Standard Oil Company of New 1971 Oil production averages
with Standard Oil of California Jersey, later Exxon, purchases 30% 4.5 mmbpd
which creates the California of Arabian American Oil Company,
Arabian Standard Oil Company and Socony-Vacuum Oil Company, 1973 The Saudi Government acquires an
(CASOC) to manage the concession later Mobil, purchases 10% to help initial 25% participating interest in
provide market outlets the concession, which increases to
1938 Oil discovered at Dammam 60% the following year
Well No. 7 1949 Oil production hits 500 mbpd
1975 Decision made to build the Master
1939 Oil exports began 1952 Headquarters moved from Gas System, enabling one of the
New York City to Dhahran world's largest gas markets,
1944 CASOC renamed the Arabian transforming the national energy
American Oil Company 1958 Oil production exceeds mix toward clean fuel, and building
1 mmbpd the cornerstone for the economy's
industrialization
1965 Oil production exceeds
2 mmbpd 1976 Becomes the world’s leading oil
producer in terms of volume
produced in a single year
1980 Saudi Government increases its
participation interest in the crude
oil concession rights, production
and facilities to 100%
1988 Saudi Arabian Oil Company
(Saudi Aramco) officially established
Rub' al-Khali, Saudi Arabia
In 1939, on the northern edge of the Rub' al-Khali, Aramco explored the Jafurah sands, and
82 years later the Company announced development of Saudi Arabia's largest non-associated
gas field, Jafurah.
Natural gas, a lower-carbon energy source, has a critical role to play in the world's energy
transition, and commercializing the estimated 200 tscf of unconventional gas in place in
the vast Jafurah basin is expected to contribute to Saudi Arabia's goal to produce half of
its electricity from gas, and half from renewables — and make the Kingdom one of the
world's largest gas producers.
06 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 9]
Aramco
A global company Transformation Sustainability and
and resilience energy security
1989-2014 2015-2020 2021
1989 First international downstream 2017 Aramco acquires full ownership 2021 49% of Aramco Oil Pipelines
joint venture established in the U.S. of Motiva Company sold to a consortium
of international investors
1991 First Asian downstream 2018 Aramco becomes a joint
joint venture established stock company Highest single-day natural gas
in South Korea production of 10.8 bscfd
Commercial production of
1993 Aramco assumes the assets unconventional resources Ambition announced to achieve
and operations of Saudi Arabian commences in north Arabia net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2
Marketing and Refining Company, greenhouse gas emissions across
a Government-owned in-Kingdom 2019 Aramco becomes a public company wholly-owned operated assets
refining and international product with shares listed on Tadawul by 2050
marketing organization
$12.0 billion of Senior Unsecured
Energy infrastructure deal signed
2009 Petro Rabigh, Aramco’s first Notes issued and listed on the to sell 49% of Aramco Gas Pipelines
petrochemical plant, begins London Stock Exchange (LSE)
Company (AGPC) to a consortium
production
of investors
2020 Highest single-day crude oil
2011 Sadara Chemical Company formed production of 12.1 mmbpd
2014 SATORP and YASREF refineries Historic acquisition of a 70% stake
come online in SABIC transforms Aramco into
a major global petrochemicals
producer
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 07
[Page 10]
Chairman’s message
Delivering exceptional performance and
supporting the energy transition
Dear Shareholders,
In 2021, Aramco continued to focus on
generating long-term shareholder value
while also taking significant steps to
position the Company for continued
success in a world transitioning to a
cleaner energy future.
With global demand for crude oil
strengthening as economic activity
accelerated in key markets, Aramco
utilized its operational agility to deliver
both strong earnings and cash flows for the
year. Our net income was SAR 412.4 billion
($110.0 billion). This strong operational
and financial performance allowed the
Company to declare total cash dividends
of SAR 281.3 billion ($75.0 billion) for
2021, and the Board of Directors also
recommended granting shareholders
one new additional bonus share for
every 10 shares they hold.
Against a backdrop of higher prices
for our upstream products and better
margins in our Downstream business,
we take a long-term view while delivering
on our strategic objectives.
We are maintaining a highly-disciplined
and flexible approach to capital allocation
Reducing emissions from energy production
as we expand our business so our
customers will continue to have access to
and use, while at the same time satisfying the
the reliable energy they need to support
the growth they desire. In Upstream, we
world’s growing energy requirements, is the
are working on increasing our Maximum
Sustainable Capacity as per the
biggest dual challenge facing our industry.”
Government’s direction. In Downstream,
we are growing and diversifying our
operations while also integrating SABIC
as Aramco's chemicals arm.
08 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 11]
Aramco
Creating value for shareholders Tackling the climate challenge Our continued success would also not be
and society In step with the Saudi Green Initiative, possible without the visionary leadership
of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques
The improved market sentiment provided the Company announced its ambition
King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud, and
us with an excellent opportunity to unlock to achieve net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2
His Royal Highness Prince Mohammed
further value from Aramco’s asset base greenhouse gas emissions across our
bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud, Crown
through the ongoing portfolio optimization wholly-owned operated assets by
Prince, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister
program. The Company entered into 2050, which in turn will help support
of Defense of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
two energy infrastructure deals in 2021 the Kingdom’s own 2060 net-zero aim.
with a total value of SAR 104.6 billion In addition, we thank the Ministry of
We did not make nor do we take this
($27.9 billion). This resulted in one group Energy of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
ambition for our Company lightly. We fully
of investors taking a 49% equity stake for their ongoing support of Aramco.
recognize both the scale and the urgency
in Aramco’s stabilized crude oil pipeline
of the global climate challenge. As one
network in June, and a second group Recognizing our many stakeholders
of the world’s largest integrated energy
taking a 49% equity stake in our natural
and chemicals companies, and as stewards In February 2022, the Government
gas pipeline network following the closing
of the Kingdom’s vast hydrocarbon transferred 4% of its shares in the Company
of that transaction in February 2022.
resources, we have a critical role to play in to the Public Investment Fund. This private
In a further demonstration of global helping the complex transition to a lower transfer did not affect the Company’s total
investor confidence in Aramco’s long-term emissions future be as orderly as possible. number of issued shares and does not have
value creation story, our inaugural any impact on the Company’s operations,
international U.S. dollar Shari’a compliant As demand for energy continues to strategy, dividend distribution policy, or
offering was well received. The grow in response to an expanding world governance framework. The Government
SAR 22.5 billion ($6.0 billion) transaction population and rising living standards, we remains Aramco’s largest shareholder.
believe oil and gas will still play a vital role
not only illustrates our unique value
for decades to come. The suggestion that Aramco has long played a special
proposition but also serves to further
hydrocarbons can be quickly eliminated role in providing energy that powers
diversify our funding sources as well
from the global energy mix is unrealistic the development of countries and
as expand our investor base.
as doing so would severely impede and communities around the world. It is not
The Company remains at the forefront of negatively impact trade and travel. an exaggeration to suggest that each and
enabling and enhancing the Kingdom’s Instead, society as a whole must seek every day billions of people, directly and
industrial, technology and sustainability a stable and inclusive energy transition indirectly, depend on a reliable supply of
infrastructure to help create new jobs and that meets the needs of people in both energy that originates from Aramco.
further diversify the domestic economy. the developed and developing world.
Our ability to reliably meet these energy
Aramco has taken a leading role in the
Reducing emissions from energy demands is dependent on the hard work
Shareek program launched by the
production and use, while at the same of a talented team. And on behalf of the
Government of Saudi Arabia in March last
time satisfying the world’s growing Board of Directors, I want to take this
year. The word “shareek” means partner
energy requirements, is the biggest dual opportunity to acknowledge the men and
in Arabic, and as the name suggests, the
challenge facing our industry. With our women of Aramco for their dedication
program is designed to promote increased
low upstream carbon intensity and our and commitment. I also want to express
public-private partnerships through
low-cost oil, as well as our demonstrated our collective appreciation to our
a range of finance, funding, tax, and
capacity to innovate, we firmly believe customers, partners, suppliers, and
regulatory incentives. In alignment
Aramco is well positioned for the future. contractors for their ongoing support.
with Shareek, we continue to expand
our iktva initiative to further develop our
Maintaining good governance Finally, to our shareholders, we thank
local supply chain, while also launching
you for your continued confidence in
Aramco Namaat as we seek to make a As we chart our course forward, we
our Company.
positive social and economic impact. also welcomed two new members to
our Board of Directors in 2021: Stuart T.
The development of the Jafurah Gulliver, former Group CEO of HSBC, and
unconventional gas field is another Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh, former Senior H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan
example of our efforts to create value. Vice President, Finance, Strategy and Chairman of the Board of Directors
In addition to making Saudi Arabia Development of Aramco. Both were
one of the world’s largest natural gas elected to the Board at our Ordinary
producers, Jafurah is expected to Annual General Assembly meeting in July,
contribute to the Kingdom’s goal of filling seats vacated by H.E. Nabeel M.
producing half of its electricity from Al-Amudi and Sir Mark Moody-Stuart.
gas and half from renewables. On behalf of the Board, I would like to
take this opportunity to express our deep
appreciation to both Nabeel and Sir Mark
for their valuable contributions to Aramco.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 09
[Page 12]
President and CEO’s message
Generating value and providing reliable,
cleaner energy
Dear Shareholders,
With hindsight, there are certain points at
certain times that stand out as pivotal, and
in 2021 there were several such moments.
Globally, we saw economic momentum
return in many countries along with
growing optimism that rising vaccinations
would be a turning point to mark the
beginning of the end of the pandemic.
Related to our industry, there were signs
of energy supply concerns in some parts
of the world, which should serve to
illustrate the potential consequences of
further under-investment in conventional
energy production.
Aramco also marked a number of
milestones in 2021 that are highlighted
in this report. The most significant, by far,
was announcing our ambition to achieve
net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse
gas emissions across the Company’s
wholly-owned operated assets by 2050.
Other key achievements included two
landmark transactions to monetize our
pipelines infrastructure. We also moved
forward with the development of the
Jafurah unconventional gas field, which
has the potential to make Saudi Arabia
one of the world’s leading gas producers
Longer-term, we will continue to position
by 2030. In addition to declaring total
cash dividends of SAR 281.3 billion
Aramco to be a cornerstone of world energy
($75.0 billion) for 2021, the Board also
security, providing reliable and ever-cleaner recommended the granting of bonus
shares to shareholders in recognition of
energy throughout the global energy transition.” our outstanding operational performance
and financial results for the year.
From a personal perspective, I am proud
of how well my colleagues adapted to
the challenges presented by COVID-19.
Indeed, their overwhelmingly positive
response to a Company-led vaccination
campaign was instrumental in our ability
to maintain uninterrupted operations.
10 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 13]
Aramco
Building our business Innovation continues to be a priority for Generating value
In our Upstream operations, we are Aramco. Early in 2021, we commissioned through partnerships
one of the most powerful supercomputers
expanding our capability to increase our Aramco has long believed that
in the world to run three-dimensional earth
crude oil Maximum Sustainable Capacity collaboration is critical to identifying
modeling to enhance efficiencies in
from 12.0 mmbpd to 13.0 mmbpd. This sustainable solutions. In 2021, we
exploration and production. In a fitting
additional capacity is expected to come continued working with numerous
tribute to the Kingdom’s first commercial oil
on-stream by 2027. We have completed partners to generate long-term value.
well, our new 55.4-petaflops supercomputer
work on crude oil increments at ‘Ain Dar
was named “Dammam-7.” Aramco was
and Fazran, which will provide access to This included establishing the Altamayyuz
also granted 864 U.S. patents last year,
secondary reservoirs with a combined Finance and Accounting Excellence
making us a leader within our industry.
capacity of 175 mbpd. And we are Academy to create a skilled talent pool
progressing with engineering and for the Company to draw from, as well
Advancing the energy transition
construction at Marjan and Berri that as support a thriving financial sector in
will add a combined production capacity As a company, we remain deeply the Kingdom. This first-of-its-kind
of 550 mbpd of crude oil by 2025. committed to playing a leading role in collaboration involves global banks along
helping to ensure a stable and inclusive with leading international and domestic
Meanwhile, with gas likely to play a critical energy transition. Across our global accounting firms.
role in the energy transition, we believe research network, Aramco scientists
the development and commercialization of are pursuing answers to critical energy During 2021, we took an active role in
the Jafurah unconventional field will have questions facing our industry and the the Kingdom’s new Shareek program
positive implications for energy security world as a whole. At our R&D centers we as it provides attractive incentives to
and economic development. Containing an are working on a range of cutting-edge encourage partnerships and investments
estimated 200 tscf of gas in place, Jafurah technologies, including ultra-efficient that will create additional shareholder
will provide high-value feedstock for our engines, carbon capture, utilization, value. We also launched Aramco Namaat,
petrochemicals business and complement and storage, and also non-combustible an extension of our industrial investment
our plans for lower-carbon hydrogen uses for oil. program, and we continued to expand
production in the future. When completed, iktva, our local supply chain initiative.
Jafurah will be one of the most modern, Clearly our path to meet our All three programs are designed to
cost-efficient unconventional resource aforementioned net-zero ambition will help drive economic growth and create
programs in the industry. not be a straight line, and achieving this opportunities across industries for local
in less than three decades will not be businesses, small and medium enterprises,
Our Hawiyah Gas Plant expansion is easy. What is also clear is that Aramco is and entrepreneurial start-ups.
expected to be on-stream in 2022, and coming from a position of strength. Our
we continue to advance the Hawiyah upstream carbon intensity of 11.2 kg of Looking ahead with confidence
Unayzah reservoir gas storage program CO equivalent per barrel of oil equivalent
2 As we look ahead to the future, we are
to provide some 2.0 bscfd of gas for is one of the lowest in our industry.
optimistic that energy demand will remain
reintroduction into the Master Gas
relatively healthy. Longer-term, we will
System by 2024. And from our existing Additionally, as part of our support
continue to position Aramco to be a
gas operations, we achieved the highest for a smooth global energy transition,
cornerstone of world energy security,
single-day natural gas production in we continue to explore the potential
providing reliable and ever-cleaner energy
our history of 10.8 bscfd. of hydrogen as a new source of lower-
throughout the global energy transition.
carbon energy. In 2021, Aramco also
During 2021, we also continued to expand made its first significant investment in
While we cannot shape future events for
our downstream operations, including the renewables by taking a 30% stake in the
Aramco, I am confident that we are shaping
successful start-up of our 400 mbpd Jazan 1.5 GW Sudair Solar PV Plant, which is
Aramco for future events. This confidence
Refinery. And in October, we opened the expected to start producing electricity
is based on many factors, including our
first Aramco-branded service station as in the second half of 2022.
history of overcoming challenges and
part of our joint venture with TotalEnergies
our Company’s demonstrated technical
to develop a premium retail network in the We will be providing further detail on our
excellence. But the main reason for such
Kingdom. Also domestically, we launched various sustainability-related initiatives in
optimism is our people — who strive each
a new line of automotive lubricants under our inaugural stand-alone Sustainability
and every day to deliver the energy the
the ORIZON® brand. The integration with Report, which is scheduled for publication
world needs to enable both growth and
SABIC progressed with the marketing and later this year.
progress in societies and to transform
sales of several Aramco petrochemical
people’s lives.
products being transferred to SABIC, while
offtake and resale activities for certain
SABIC products are moving to Aramco
Trading Company. Amin H. Nasser
President and Chief Executive Officer
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 11
[Page 14]
2021 highlights
Year of achievements
First quarter Second quarter
Dammam-7 supercomputer Aramco Oil Pipelines Company
Aramco is evolving as one of the world’s leading digitalized Aramco's landmark SAR 46.5 billion ($12.4 billion) energy
energy companies, and inaugurated one of the top infrastructure deal involved the sale of a 49% equity interest
supercomputers in the world, Dammam-7. in Aramco Oil Pipelines Company (AOPC) to a consortium of
international investors.
Start-up of Jazan Refinery
Aramco safely and successfully started-up the Jazan Refinery, and Shareek
work is progressing well to reach the 400 mbpd design capacity. Aramco announced its leading role in the new cooperative
Shareek program to support and partner with domestic
Mangrove Eco-Park businesses and ventures aligned with Aramco’s business strategy.
On the Arabian Gulf shoreline, Aramco opened its Mangrove
Eco-Park, the first facility in the Kingdom dedicated to the Inaugural international U.S. dollar sukuk
preservation of mangrove forests. Aramco successfully raised SAR 22.5 billion ($6.0 billion) in
June following the sale to leading institutional investors of
Preserving the environment U.S. dollar-denominated Shari'a compliant securities, listed
Aramco planted one million new native trees and eight on the London Stock Exchange.
million mangroves.
Expanding Upstream
Roseyar Aramco successfully completed and tied-in the ‘Ain Dar
Aramco inaugurated a rose factory in al-Taif to employ women and Fazran crude oil increments, and construction progress
to produce skin care products containing highly-regarded local continued on the Marjan and Berri increment programs.
rose oil.
Altamayyuz
Aramco inaugurated the Altamayyuz Finance and Accounting
Excellence Academy.
12 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 15]
Aramco
Third quarter Fourth quarter
Namaat Net-zero
The expansion of the Company's industrial investment program, Aramco announced its ambition to achieve net-zero Scope 1
Aramco Namaat, aims to ensure greater reliability of energy and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions across its wholly-owned
supply, localize the industrial supply chain, and create jobs. operated assets by 2050.
Investing in solar Aramco-branded retail fuel network
Aramco invested in the 1.5 GW Sudair Solar PV project, which Aramco launched its first branded in-Kingdom service station
will be Saudi Arabia’s largest solar farm when completed. as part of its joint venture with TotalEnergies.
Financing arrangement in connection with the Jazan Jafurah development
Integrated Gasification Combined-Cycle Power Plant Aramco commenced the development of the vast Jafurah
Aramco entered into a SAR 44.1 billion ($11.8 billion) financing unconventional gas field, the largest non-associated gas field
arrangement with Air Products, ACWA Power and Air Products in Saudi Arabia.
Qudra in relation to the Jazan Integrated Gasification Combined-
Cycle (IGCC) Power Plant, Air Separation Unit and certain New domestic marketplace with ORIZON®
ancillary assets. Aramco entered the domestic lubricants marketplace,
offering consumers a new line of lubricant products under
the ORIZON® brand.
Aramco Gas Pipelines Company
The Company signed a SAR 58.1 billion ($15.5 billion) energy
infrastructure deal to sell a 49% equity interest in Aramco
Gas Pipelines Company (AGPC) to a consortium of investors.
The transaction closed in February 2022.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 13
[Page 16]
Aramco’s operations
Global operations
Americas
Argentina, Brazil, Canada,
Mexico
United States of America
Countries of operation
Aramco headquarters
Subsidiary* offices
Crude oil and natural gas production facilities
Refining, petrochemical and manufacturing facilities
Terminals and distribution hubs
Aramco retail fuels network
Technology and innovation centers
* Subsidiaries are separate legal entities from the Company.
Turaif
Safaniya
Tanajib
Manifa
Jawf
Tabuk
Khursaniyah
Fadhili Wasit
Jubail Berri
Midyan Ju'aymah Ras Tanura
Qatif
Saihat
Duba Dammam
Aramco headquarters, Dhahran
Khobar
Abqaiq
Qasim Shedgum
Medina
al-Hasa
Se’ed 'Uthmaniyah
Khurais
Yanbu'
SABIC headquarters Hawiyah
Riyadh
Rabigh
Shaybah
Thuwal
Haradh
Jiddah
Sulayyil
Abha
Najran
Jazan
14 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
| Safaniya
Tanajib
Manifa
Khursaniyah
Fadhili Wasit
Jubail Berri
Ju'aymah Ras Tanura
Qatif
Saihat
Dammam
Aramco headquarters, Dhahran
Khobar
Abqaiq
Qasim Shedgum
al-Hasa
Se’ed 'Uthmaniyah
Khurais
SABIC headquarters Hawiyah
Riyadh
Sha
Haradh
Sulayyil
Turaif
Jawf
Tabuk
uba
Medina
Yanbu'
Rabigh
Thuwal
Jiddah |
[Page 18]
Business model
Capturing value across the hydrocarbon life cycle
Who we are
Our vision Our values
Aramco’s vision is to be Excellence At Aramco, excellence translates into all aspects of our
workplace. It is our personal and group commitment to
the world’s preeminent
doing what we do well. We drive for best results and are
integrated energy and agile in addressing new challenges.
chemicals company,
operating in a safe,
Safety Safety is an integral part of Aramco’s culture. We are committed
sustainable and
to providing a safe and respectful working environment for all
reliable manner. with the appropriate safety procedures and policies in place
on-site and within the community.
Our mission Citizenship No matter where in the world we are conducting business,
it is important to be known as a good corporate citizen and
to be a positive influence within communities. As a global
Aramco strives to provide
company in Saudi Arabia, we take this role seriously.
its shareholders with
resilient value creation
through crude oil price
Integrity The integrity of business at Aramco is based on the ethical
cycles by maintaining its standards of our employees in our everyday operations.
Integrity is a precious asset, it is our reputation. The
preeminence in oil and foundation of corporate integrity is personal integrity.
gas production, capturing
additional value across the
hydrocarbon value chain,
Accountability Accountability means all employees at Aramco take responsibility
and profitably growing for their actions in meeting corporate objectives. Accountability
for achieving Aramco’s overarching business objectives starts
its portfolio.
with the goals and objectives outlined by the President and CEO,
for its business lines, and pervades through Aramco.
Underpinned by our environmental,
Upstream carbon intensity Flaring intensity1
(kg of COe/boe) (scf/boe)
2
11.2 5.51
16 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 19]
Aramco
What we do
Aramco directs its strategic focus on four themes:
Upstream preeminence: Downstream integration: Low carbon: develop low- Localization and the
maintain Aramco’s position as continue the strategic carbon products and solutions promotion of national
the world’s largest crude oil integration of Aramco's across the energy, chemicals, champions: facilitate the
producer by volume and one Upstream and Downstream and materials sectors. development of a diverse,
of the lowest-cost producers. businesses to capture sustainable in-Kingdom energy
additional value across ecosystem to underpin the
the hydrocarbon chain. Company’s competitiveness.
For more details see page 29
Our operations
Upstream Downstream
Aramco, with one of the Aramco has a large and
Integrated operations
lowest upstream carbon strategically integrated global
intensities and low production The strategic integration Downstream business, which
costs, safely explores for, of Aramco’s Upstream and consists primarily of refining and
develops and produces Downstream segments enables petrochemical manufacturing,
crude oil, condensate, us to secure crude oil demand supply and trading, distribution
natural gas and NGL. by selling to a dedicated and power generation.
network of local and
For more details For more details
see page 48 international refineries. see page 58
social and governance activities
Lost time injuries/illness rate (LTI)2,3 Granted U.S. patents
(per 200,000 work hours) 1. Company’s emissions from wholly-owned in-Kingdom
operated assets, SASREF, Motiva, and ARLANXEO.
0.017 864 2. Applies to Saudi Arabian Oil Company (the Company)
and operationally controlled entities.
3. Total workforce (employees and contractors).
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 17
[TABLE DATA]
| Upstream
Aramco, with one of the
Integrated
lowest upstream carbon
intensities and low production The strategi
costs, safely explores for, of Aramco’s U
develops and produces Downstream se
crude oil, condensate, us to secure cru
natural gas and NGL. by selling to
network o
For more details
see page 48 internationa |  |  | Downstream
Aramco has a large and
operations
strategically integrated global
c integration Downstream business, which
pstream and consists primarily of refining and
gments enables petrochemical manufacturing,
de oil demand supply and trading, distribution
a dedicated and power generation.
f local and
For more details
l refineries. see page 58 |  |  |  |  |
|  | Upstream
Aramco, with one of the
Integrate
lowest upstream carbon
intensities and low production The strateg
costs, safely explores for, of Aramco’s
develops and produces Downstream s
crude oil, condensate, us to secure c
natural gas and NGL. by selling t
network
For more details
see page 48 internatio |  |  | Downstream
Aramco has a large and
perations
strategically integrated global
ntegration Downstream business, which
stream and consists primarily of refining and
ments enables petrochemical manufacturing,
e oil demand supply and trading, distribution
dedicated and power generation.
ocal and
For more details
refineries. see page 58 |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
Integrate
The strateg
of Aramco’s
Downstream s
us to secure c
by selling t
network
internatio |  |  |  | perations
ntegration
stream and
ments enables
e oil demand
dedicated
ocal and
refineries.
| Integrate
The strateg
of Aramco’s
Downstream s
us to secure c
by selling t
network
internatio | d
i
U
e
ru
o
o
na | o
c i
p
g
d
a
f l
l | perations
ntegration
stream and
ments enables
e oil demand
dedicated
ocal and
refineries.
|  |  |  |
[Page 20]
Business model continued
How we add value across the hydrocarbon life cycle
Aramco's conventional proved reserves, crude oil production and profitability
are unrivaled. Its skilled workforce, supported by leading-edge technology,
delivers safe, reliable, low-cost and low-carbon intensity crude oil production,
with secure demand provided by its growing Downstream business
Maximum Sustainable
Explore and produce Refine and
Capacity (MSC)
(mmbpd)
Aramco manages the Kingdom’s unique manufacture
hydrocarbon reserves base, and is 12.0
committed to optimizing production Through its global network of
Total crude oil and
and maximizing long-term value. refineries and chemicals businesses,
condensate reserves
Total hydrocarbon reserves (billion barrels) Aramco produces critical industry
feedstock and essential fuels and
(billion boe)
196.9 petrochemicals that meet the needs
253.6 of communities around the world.
Total crude oil production1
Total hydrocarbon production (mmbpd)
(mmboed)
9.2
12.3
1. Includes AGOC’s oil production and blended condensate, and excludes
the Kingdom of Bahrain’s entitlement to volumes produced from the
Abu Sa’fah field.
2. Applies to Saudi Arabian Oil Company (the Company).
18 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 26]
Business overview
One of the world’s largest integrated
energy and chemicals companies
Overview Aramco’s principal fields are located
in close proximity to each other within
Aramco’s Upstream Aramco is one of the world’s largest
the Central and Eastern Provinces of the
integrated energy and chemicals
operations are primarily Kingdom. An extensive pipeline network
companies. Aramco’s operating
connects Aramco’s fields, processing
segments are Upstream and Downstream,
based in Saudi Arabia, plants, and other facilities. The produced
which are supported by corporate
crude oil, condensate, natural gas and
while the Downstream activities. Aramco’s Upstream operations
NGL travel through Aramco’s pipelines
are primarily based in Saudi Arabia, while
business is global. the Downstream business is global. to multiple facilities for processing into
refined and petrochemical products, or to
In 2021, Aramco’s average hydrocarbon domestic customers or export terminals.
production was 12.3 mmboed, including In particular, Aramco’s East-West Pipeline
9.2 mmbpd of crude oil (including is critical in linking oil production facilities
blended condensate and AGOC’s in the Eastern Province with Yanbu’ on
production in the partitioned territory and the west coast, and providing flexibility
its adjoining offshore areas in accordance to export from the east and west coasts
with the agreements between the of the Kingdom.
Kingdom and the State of Kuwait, but
The Government determines the
excluding the Kingdom of Bahrain’s
Kingdom’s maximum level of crude oil
entitlement to volumes produced from
production in the exercise of its sovereign
the Abu Sa’fah field). As at December 31,
prerogative and requires Aramco to
2021, based on the initial 40-year period
maintain Maximum Sustainable Capacity
and 20-year extension of the Concession,
(MSC). As at December 31, 2021, Aramco’s
Aramco’s reserves stood at 253.6 billion
MSC was maintained at 12.0 mmbpd of
boe, including 196.9 billion barrels of
crude oil. In line with the Government’s
crude oil and condensate, 25.2 billion
mandate for MSC to be increased to
barrels of NGL, and 194.5 tscf of natural
13.0 mmbpd, Aramco is proceeding
gas. In addition, as at December 31, 2021,
with its plans to gradually reach the
Aramco had a gross refining capacity of
mandated MSC by 2027 through multiple
6.8 mmbpd and net chemicals production
increments. The spare capacity afforded
capacity of 53.8 million tons per year.
by maintaining MSC enables Aramco to
rapidly increase its crude oil production
Upstream
Aramco’s MSC was maintained at above planned levels in response to
The Upstream segment’s activities changes in global crude oil supply and
consist of safely exploring for, developing, demand. Aramco also uses this spare
12.0
mmbpd and producing crude oil, condensate, capacity as an alternative supply option in
natural gas and NGL. Aramco manages case of unplanned production outages at
of crude oil as at December 31, 2021. the Kingdom’s unique reserves and any field and to maintain its production
resources base to optimize production and levels during routine field maintenance.
maximize long-term value pursuant to the
Hydrocarbons Law, which mandates that
Aramco’s hydrocarbon operations promote
long-term productivity of the Kingdom’s
reservoirs and support the prudent
stewardship of its hydrocarbon resources.
24 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 27]
Business overview
and strategy
Unrivaled reserves Aramco is the exclusive supplier of natural
gas in the Kingdom and its gas portfolio
One of world’s largest hydrocarbon producers is rich in liquids, demonstrated by the
production of 1.0 mmbpd of NGL and
0.2 mmbpd of unblended condensate
in 2021. Aramco owns and operates the
Master Gas System (MGS), which is an
extensive network of pipelines that
connects its key gas production and
Aramco’s hydrocarbon reserve s processing sites throughout the Kingdom.
under the Concession agreement In 2021, Aramco commenced development
(December 31, 2021) of the vast Jafurah unconventional gas
field, which is considered the largest
253.6 B boe non-associated gas field in the Kingdom
and hosts the largest liquids-rich shale
gas development in the Middle East with
an estimated 200 tscf of gas in place.
196.9 The project aims to meet rising demand
B bbl
for high-value petrochemicals feedstock,
of crude oil and condensate
complement Aramco’s focus on hydrogen,
support expansion of its integrated gas
portfolio, and is expected to contribute
25.2 B bbl to greenhouse gas (GHG) avoidance in
of NGL the domestic energy sector.
Aramco seeks to further expand its oil
and gas reserves through new field
194.5
tscf discoveries, new reservoir additions
of natural gas in existing fields, and delineation and
reassessment of existing reservoirs and
fields. The Company continued its focus
on oil and gas reserves replacement
which led to the discovery of five gas
fields comprising three conventional
and two unconventional discoveries.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 25
[Page 28]
Business overview continued
Downstream secure crude oil demand and capture Aramco’s Downstream business is the
incremental value from the hydrocarbon largest customer for the Upstream
Aramco has a large, strategically
value chain by selling to its dedicated segment’s crude oil production, consuming
integrated global Downstream business.
system of domestic and international 43% of its crude oil production in 2021.
The Downstream segment’s activities
wholly-owned and affiliated refineries Aramco’s Upstream business produces all
consist of refining and petrochemical
and petrochemical plants. This crude the crude oil supplied to and processed by
manufacturing, base oils and lubricants,
placement provides significant benefits Aramco’s wholly-owned and affiliated
retail operations, distribution, supply
to Aramco’s downstream operations, refineries in the Kingdom, and provides
and trading, and power generation.
including a secure and reliable supply the majority of crude oil used by its
The strategic integration of Aramco’s of high-quality crude oil, which helps international refineries.
Upstream and Downstream segments to ensure a secure and reliable supply
provides an opportunity for Aramco to of refined and petrochemical products
to their customers.
Reliable oil and gas production
Wellhead 593, Abqaiq Field, Saudi Arabia
Aramco, with exceptional supply reliability, produces five Arabian crude oil grades —
Heavy, Medium, Light, Extra Light, and Super Light — which are highly compatible with
most refineries globally.
26 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 29]
Business overview
and strategy
Aramco’s refining operations in the signed agreements with Polish refiner and Aramco’s corporate activities are
Kingdom, including its domestic affiliates fuel retailer PKN Orlen, which will expand underpinned by Aramco’s commitment
and local distribution system, provide Aramco’s European downstream presence to good governance and leadership,
Aramco access to a large domestic through investments in Poland’s refining, which includes environmental, social
marketplace to which it is the sole supplier. wholesale, and jet fuel marketing and governance practices (Section 4: ESG),
In addition to its domestic focus, Aramco segments. Completion of the transaction risk management (Section 5: Risk) and
is directing its downstream investments is subject to regulatory approvals. corporate governance (Section 6:
in areas of high growth, including China, Corporate governance).
India, Southeast Asia, material demand Aramco also has an integrated
centers such as the United States and petrochemicals business within its In efforts to optimize its portfolio and
Europe, and countries that rely on Downstream segment, which enables advance its strategic alignment program,
importing crude oil, such as Japan and it to capture incremental margin in the in 2021 the Company signed two energy
South Korea. In January 2022, Aramco hydrocarbon value chain. Aramco’s infrastructure deals with different investor
chemicals business continues to grow consortiums worth SAR 46.5 billion
through capacity expansions and ($12.4 billion) and SAR 58.1 billion
increasing ownership positions in affiliates ($15.5 billion), involving Aramco’s stabilized
and new investments. This includes its crude oil pipeline and gas pipeline
recent acquisition of a 70% stake in networks, respectively. In addition, Aramco
SABIC from the PIF. Aramco’s investment in secured access to low-cost and diversified
SABIC makes it a major global producer of funding by leveraging positive market
petrochemicals and expands its capabilities sentiment and its proven ability to obtain
in procurement, manufacturing, marketing external financing, issuing SAR 22.5 billion
and sales, and supports Aramco’s liquids- ($6.0 billion) of U.S. dollar-denominated
to-chemicals conversion strategies. Shari’a compliant securities at very
Synergies in multiple areas, including favorable terms.
procurement, stream integration, feedstock
optimization, and maintenance activities
are being pursued.
Aramco’s expanding global network of
refineries and chemicals joint ventures
Aramco’s Downstream
provide access to new markets for the
Company’s products, and allows it to business is the largest
strategically place crude oil volumes
across different geographies. customer for the Upstream
segment’s crude oil production.
Corporate
Aramco’s Upstream and Downstream
segments, as well as the overall business,
are supported by corporate activities.
This includes technical services essential
to the success of Aramco’s core business,
as well as human resources, finance, legal,
corporate affairs and IT. Additionally,
the integrated corporate development
organization, established in 2020, has
a mandate to optimize Aramco’s asset
portfolio by assessing and monetizing
certain existing assets.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 27
[Page 30]
Market overview
Global energy demand recovery
Global Domestic
The global economy experienced a strong According to the General Authority for In line with the economic
recovery in 2021, reflecting increased Statistics' latest release, the Kingdom’s
recovery, overall domestic
mobility and the resumption of business GDP is estimated to have grown by 3.3%
activities. As such, the outlook for global in 2021, vis-à-vis the previous year. This
energy demand increased
energy demand remains robust. This represents a significant increase when
represents a significant shift from 2020, compared to the 4.1% contraction by 2.8% during 2021.
which was severely impacted by the registered in 2020. The GDP growth
COVID-19 pandemic and its related in 2021 comes as a result of economic
lockdowns and recurring outbreaks of the recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic
virus. Accordingly, the global economy and in particular the growth of non-oil
grew by 5.6% in 2021, compared to a activities by 6.6%, Government services
3.9% contraction in 2020, according to activities by 1.5%, and to a lesser extent, Average ICE Brent crude oil price
IHS Markit estimates. from oil activities growth of 0.2%.
$/bbl
The IHS Markit Global Crude Oil Markets In line with the economic recovery,
Outlook estimates global oil demand overall domestic energy demand
increased by 5.7 mmbpd in 2021 to increased by 2.8% during 2021. Demand 75
96.8 mmbpd, while global oil supply is growth was spearheaded by a 6.4% 71
estimated to have averaged 96.2 mmbpd increase in transportation fuels, largely 60 65%
increase
in 2021. The global market was therefore in as a result of the phasing out of the
45
an undersupplied position during the year. COVID-19 containment measures.
43
ICE Brent crude oil price averaged $71 per 30
barrel in 2021, approximately 65% higher
than the average of $43 per barrel in 2020. 15
2020 2021
28 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 31]
Strategy Business overview
and strategy
Positioning Aramco for the future
The Company’s strategy is driven by the The Company’s strategy requires a Aramco seeks to deliver value across
belief that the world’s need for affordable, number of enablers to be successful. four dimensions:
reliable and sustainable energy will Foremost among these are:
continue to grow, and that a broad mix of • Profitability: by reinforcing its
energy solutions will be required to meet • People: preparing the workforce for competitive positions across its
this demand, including oil and gas. the challenges the Company will face upstream and downstream activities;
in the future;
• Resilience: both operational and
Within this context, Aramco’s vision is
• Technology: innovating, developing financial, enabling the Company
to be the world’s preeminent integrated
and deploying technology to boost to deliver stable dividends to its
energy and chemicals company, operating
competitiveness and provide economical shareholders through crude oil
in a safe, sustainable and reliable manner.
solutions to sustainability issues; and price cycles and to maintain a high
investment-grade credit rating;
To achieve this vision, Aramco focuses on • Portfolio optimization: continuously
four strategic themes across its businesses: optimizing the Company’s portfolio • Growth: both in its traditional oil and
to free up capital for redeployment. gas activities and new businesses; and
• Upstream preeminence: as the
principal engine of value generation, • Sustainability: embedded within all
the Company intends to maintain its its activities.
position as the world’s largest crude
oil producer by production volume
and one of the lowest-cost producers.
The Company’s vast reserves base,
spare capacity, and unique operational
flexibility allow it to effectively respond
•
t
h
D
o
a
o
s
c
w
h
a
n
a
d
n
st
e
g
r
d
e
e
i
a
s
c
m
a
in
t e
i
d
n
d
e
t
m
s
e
y
g
a
s
r
t
n
a
e
d
t
m
i
;
o n
o
:
f
t
d
h
o
e
m
C
e
o
s
m
tic
p a ny ofit a
bilit y R e
silie
n
c
r e
and internationally wholly-owned and P T
e
affiliated refineries that are critical to e c
monetizing the Company’s upstream
pl h
n
production. Through continued P e o 1 2 o l o
strategic integration, the Company g
captures additional value across the Upstream Downstream y
hydrocarbon chain;
• Low carbon: the Company aims to
continue to lower the net carbon
3 4
emissions of its operations and to
support the global energy transition Low carbon Localization
through development of low-carbon
products and solutions across the
energy, chemicals, and materials
S
•
s
n
L
e
o
a
c
c
t
t
i
a
o
o
l
r
n
iz
s
a
;
a
l
a
t
c
i
n
o
h
d
n
a m
an
p
d
io
t
n
h
s
e
:
p
fa
r
c
o
i
m
lit
o
at
t
i
i
n
o
g
n
t
o
h
f
e
u s ta
in a b
ility
Portfolio optimization Gr o
wt
h
development of a diverse, sustainable
and globally competitive in-Kingdom
energy ecosystem to underpin the
Company’s competitiveness and support
the Kingdom’s economic development.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 29
[TABLE DATA]
y
bilit
a
ofit
r
P
e
pl
o
e 1
P
Upstream |  |  | R
e
silie
n
c
e
T
e
c
h
n
o
2 l o
g
Downstream y
| y
bilit
a
ofit
r
P
e
pl
o
e 1
P
Upstream |  | R
e
silie
n
c
e
T
e
c
h
n
o
2 l o
g
Downstream y
|  | y
bilit
a
ofit
r
P
e
pl
o
e 1
P
Upstream | R
e
silie
n
c
e
T
e
c
h
n
o
2 l o
g
Downstream y
3
Low carbon
S
u
s
ta
in
a b Portfolio
ility
o | 3
Low carbon
S
u
s
ta
in
a b Portfolio
ility
o | 3
Low carbon
S
u
s
ta
in
a b Portfolio
ility
o | 4
Localization
h
wt
ptimization Gr o
[Page 32]
Strategy continued
Four strategic themes
1
Upstream preeminence
Oil Gas
Aramco intends to maintain its position In line with the Government’s mandate to Aramco plans to further expand its
as the world’s largest crude oil company increase its MSC to 13.0 mmbpd, Aramco gas business, including the development
by production volume. Its reserves, is proceeding with plans to gradually of its unconventional gas resources,
operational capabilities and spare reach the mandated MSC through increasing production and investing in
capacity allow it to increase production multiple increments. The spare capacity additional infrastructure to meet the
in response to demand. afforded by maintaining an MSC provides large and growing domestic demand
operational flexibility to respond rapidly for low-cost, cleaner energy.
Aramco maintains its desired level to changes in global crude oil supply and
of crude oil production by balancing demand. While Aramco has a robust field Domestic gas demand growth is driven
production between maturing areas and maintenance philosophy that emphasizes by power generation, water desalination,
newer production sources, tapping into the reliability of its upstream operations, petrochemical production, and other
new reservoirs when required to optimize the MSC provides an alternative supply industrial consumption in the Kingdom.
the depletion rate of its fields. It also option in the event of unplanned
maintains its low-cost position due production outages at any field. In 2021, the Company announced the
to the unique nature of the Kingdom’s award of contracts worth $10.0 billion
geological formations, favorable onshore Aramco utilizes term agreements for for the vast Jafurah field development,
and shallow water offshore environments selling crude oil to major consumers a key component of its unconventional
in which Aramco’s reservoirs are located, globally. These agreements provide gas program, which will contribute to
synergies from Aramco’s use of its large supply predictability to customers by greenhouse gas emissions avoidance
infrastructure and logistics networks, its standardizing price and delivery terms in the domestic energy sector.
low depletion rate operational model, to major regional demand centers.
and its scaled application of technology. Aramco continues to invest in its The Company is also looking into
sophisticated and extensive crude oil monetizing part of its growing domestic
Aramco seeks to maintain its position as distribution and dispatch system, which gas production through the production
one of the world’s most reliable crude oil maintains Aramco’s supply reliability. of blue hydrogen and ammonia, which
suppliers. The Government determines it expects to play an important future
the Kingdom’s maximum level of crude oil Aramco also seeks to preserve the low role in providing low-carbon energy.
production in the exercise of its sovereign upstream carbon intensity of its crude oil
prerogative and requires Aramco to production, which places it among the Important side benefits of Aramco’s
maintain an MSC in excess of its current world’s least carbon intensive sources gas production are the significant
production in accordance with the of crude oil production. yields of NGL and condensate, which
Hydrocarbons Law. supplement crude oil production and
provide feedstock to the refining and
petrochemical industries.
30 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
|
1 |
|
|
[Page 33]
Business overview
and strategy
2
Downstream integration
Aramco intends to continue the Geographically, Aramco intends to In October 2021, Aramco and
strategic integration of its Upstream enhance both its domestic and global TotalEnergies launched the first two
and Downstream businesses to facilitate downstream businesses in key high- service stations of their joint retail network
the placement of the Company’s crude growth geographies such as China, India in Saudi Arabia. It follows the signing of a
oil in larger offtake volumes through and Southeast Asia, which are integral joint venture agreement between Aramco
a dedicated system of domestic and to Aramco’s existing business and future and TotalEnergies in 2019, with plans to
international wholly-owned and expansion strategy, as well as in other significantly upgrade a network of over
affiliated refineries, allowing it to capture attractive markets. Aramco also intends 200 service stations and expand the range
additional value across the hydrocarbon to maintain its presence in key large of quality retail services available across
chain, expand its sources of earnings, and countries, such as the United States, and the Kingdom. This network will comprise
provide resilience to oil price volatility. in countries that rely on imported crude Aramco and TotalEnergies-branded
oil, such as Japan and South Korea. stations, providing motorists with premium
Aramco’s 70% equity interest in SABIC fuels and retail services.
supports the significant expansion of Aramco continues to expand global
Aramco’s downstream activities, recognition of its brands. One aspect
particularly in its chemicals business, of this strategy is to introduce its brands
and provides additional opportunities to existing domestic and international
for Aramco to supply mixed feedstock marketing businesses, including at retail
of crude oil, refinery products and gas service stations, and further develop its
to manufacture petrochemical products. petrochemicals and base oil brands. As
Changing patterns of demand, including new marketing activities are added to its
growth in chemicals demand and the business portfolio, Aramco intends to use
long-term risk of decline in fuels demand, its own brands to build recognition of its
are driving the Company’s strategy to position in the global energy sector.
favor investments in facilities with high
liquids-to-chemicals conversion rates.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 31
[TABLE DATA]
|
| 2
|
|
[Page 34]
Strategy continued
Four strategic themes continued
Low carbon
3
The Company’s low-carbon strategy, • Developing low-carbon products and Aramco announced its ambition to achieve
which seeks to address climate-related solutions aims primarily at sustaining net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse
risks and opportunities, aims to de-risk its and diversifying demand for oil and gas emissions across its wholly-owned
businesses and maintain competitiveness gas through competitive technologies operated assets by 2050. This ambition is
and differentiation in carbon-constrained and selective business initiatives. These an important part of the Company’s focus
scenarios. include blue hydrogen and ammonia, on long-term shareholder value creation
low-carbon fuels, and gas to complement and complements the Kingdom of Saudi
The strategy has two main dimensions: renewables in the domestic energy mix Arabia’s aim to reach net-zero emissions
lower the net carbon emissions of the and to reduce liquids-burning in power by 2060, announced as part of the Saudi
Company’s operations (Scope 1 and generation. These initiatives will further Green Initiative (SGI). The Company is also
Scope 2) over time; and, develop low- help the Company capture the growing pursuing a wide range of initiatives to
carbon products and solutions across the market for low-carbon products and further lower its upstream carbon intensity.
energy, chemicals and materials space. solutions.
• Lowering the Company’s own net Aramco aims to grow its business
carbon emissions calls for managing, sustainably, notably by leveraging
reducing, and balancing carbon technology and innovation to lower
emissions across operations through a its climate impact. Aramco intends to
raft of measures that span efficiency maintain its position as a leader in
gains, renewable power, carbon upstream carbon intensity, with one
capture, utilization, and storage, of the lowest carbon footprints per unit of
and multiple offset initiatives. hydrocarbons produced. In October 2021,
Key enablers
People Technology
Aramco recognizes the need to prepare Aramco’s technology program aims to its business sustainability, and which are
its workforce of the future, thereby develop new solutions for its Upstream being actively pursued, include:
ensuring the Company’s capabilities and Downstream businesses, and to
match the requirements of its strategy. help in diversifying its product portfolio • Directly converting liquids-to-chemicals;
There are two key dimensions to this and grow its business sustainably. An
• Producing hydrogen with carbon
enabler: increasing share of its investment in
capture, utilization, and storage;
technology and research and development
• Enabling the Company’s growth addresses the sustainability objective. • Expanding non-metallic applications;
ambitions by advancing technical Such sustainability requires not only fast
• Accelerating large-scale deployment of
and professional skills, developing and large-scale deployment of existing
carbon capture, utilization, and storage;
commercial and leadership solutions, such as renewable energy,
competencies, and supporting carbon capture, utilization, and storage, • Enabling sustainable transport through
the progress of localization and and nature-based solutions, but also more efficient engines and low-carbon
national champions; and the creation and advancement of new fuels; and
low-carbon solutions that have both
• Making the Company more • Accelerating technology-based
environmental and commercial potential.
sustainable, with a focus on offsetting solutions such as direct
Examples of the new solutions that
diversity and inclusion. air capture.
Aramco believes will positively impact
32 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
|
|
3 |
|
[Page 35]
Business overview
and strategy
Localization and national champions
4
In addition to Aramco’s core businesses, In March 2021, the Government of Saudi
the Company is seeking to foster new Arabia announced the Shareek program.
businesses that will increase the long- Shareek offers a framework to accelerate
term reliability and competitiveness investments that are aligned with the
of the Company’s ecosystem, as well Company’s strategy and is relevant
as contributing to the Kingdom’s for the Company’s plans for domestic
economic development. liquids-to-chemicals, for blue hydrogen
and ammonia, for low carbon generally,
This is key to ensuring Aramco’s long-term and for fostering a more competitive
cost and productivity leadership, and resilient energy ecosystem. Part of
sustainability, and resilience. Objectives are Shareek is concerned with the Kingdom’s
two-fold: localizing the Company’s supply industrial development, which has many
chain; and promoting national champions. touchpoints with the Company’s own
ecosystem. In September 2021, the
Company announced a major expansion
of its industrial investment program,
Aramco Namaat, that will leverage a
range of incentives offered by Shareek.
Portfolio optimization
Through portfolio optimization, Aramco During 2021, Aramco has continued its Aramco Gas Pipelines Company (AGPC)
seeks to unlock value, enhance its capital portfolio optimization efforts, notably to a consortium of investors that closed
structure and reallocate capital to higher executing a number of large value in February 2022; and entering into
growth and return investments. Aramco adding transactions around existing financing arrangements in connection
has a comprehensive and disciplined infrastructure assets that attracted with the Jazan Integrated Gasification
internal approval process for capital international investors, thereby allowing Combined-Cycle Power Plant and
expenditures, new projects and debt the Company to reallocate capital towards associated infrastructure.
issuance. It analyzes future projects based its focus areas. Transactions have
on strategic, operational, commercial, and included: the sale of a 49% equity interest
financial targets. Aramco’s unique in Aramco Oil Pipelines Company (AOPC),
reserves and resource base, operational an Aramco subsidiary, to a consortium
flexibility, field management practices, of international investors including EIG
and strong cash flow generation serve Global Energy Partners and Mubadala for
as a foundation for its low gearing and SAR 46.5 billion ($12.4 billion); the signing
flexibility to allocate capital. of a SAR 58.1 billion ($15.5 billion) energy
infrastructure deal to divest 49% of
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 33
[TABLE DATA]
|
| 4
|
|
[Page 38]
Key 2021 metrics
Exceptional performance
Financial highlights
Net income EBIT* Free cash flow* Net cash provided by
(billion) (billion) (billion) operating activities
(billion)
412 780 403 523
SAR SAR SAR SAR
$110 $208 $107 $139
2020: $49 2020: $101 2020: $49 2020: $76
Capital expenditures Dividends paid Dividends paid per share ROACE*
(billion) (billion) (%)
120 281 1.40 24.4
SAR SAR SAR
$32 $75 $0.37
2020: $27 2020: $70 2020: $0.35 2020: 13.2
Gearing* Earnings per share Average realized
(%) (basic and diluted) crude oil price
($/barrel)
14.2 1.98 70.5
SAR
$0.53
2020: 23.0 2020: $0.25 2020: 40.6 * Non-IFRS measure: refer to “Non-IFRS
measures reconciliations and
definitions” for further details.
Hawiyah NGL Recovery Plant, Saudi Arabia
36 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 39]
Results and performance
Operational highlights
MSC Hydrocarbon production Crude oil production 1
(mmbpd) (mmboed) (mmbpd)
12.0 12.3 9.2
2020: 12.0 2020: 12.4 2020: 9.2
Net refining capacity Net chemicals Reliability 2
(mmbpd) production capacity (%)
(million tons per year)
4.0 53.8 99.9
2020: 3.6 2020: 53.1 2020: 99.9
Upstream carbon Flaring intensity 3 Total recordable case 1. Includes blended condensate and
AGOC’s production but excludes the
intensity (scf/boe) frequency 4 Kingdom of Bahrain’s entitlement to
volumes produced from the Abu Sa’fah
(kg of COe/boe) (per 200,000 work hours)
2 field.
2. Applies to Saudi Arabian Oil Company
11.2 5.51 0.054 (the Company).
3. The Company’s GHG emissions inventory
includes emissions from wholly-owned
in-Kingdom operated assets, SASREF,
2020: 10.6 2020: 5.97 Motiva, and ARLANXEO.
4. The Company and its operationally
controlled entities.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 37
[Page 40]
CFO’s message
Continued agility, resilience, and fiscal discipline
Dear Shareholders, be a vital part of the global energy mix,
and captures the opportunity to create
Aramco’s extraordinary performance considerable shareholder value from the
in 2021 is a testament to our fiscal current global under-investment in the
discipline and flexibility through oil and gas industry that may result in
evolving market conditions. a supply gap in the mid to long run.
During the year, we saw a rebound During 2021, we progressed with our
in the global economy with increased portfolio optimization program and
demand and higher prices for energy completed a SAR 46.5 billion ($12.4 billion)
products, which translated into strong infrastructure deal with an international
financial results. For the year ended consortium of investors. As part of the
December 31, 2021, Aramco’s net income deal, we sold a 49% equity interest in a
was SAR 412.4 billion ($110.0 billion) subsidiary that holds leasing rights for
with free cash flow of SAR 403.0 billion Aramco's stabilized crude oil pipeline
($107.5 billion) and ROACE of 24.4%. network. We signed a similar deal with
We also continued to strengthen our a second group of investors for our gas
balance sheet, and improved our gearing pipeline network of SAR 58.1 billion
ratio to 14.2% at the end of 2021 from ($15.5 billion) that closed in February
23.0% at the end of 2020. 2022. We also entered into a financing
We saw a rebound in the arrangement with a joint operation
With this outstanding performance, we company in relation to the Jazan
global economy with declared cash dividends of SAR 281.3 billion Integrated Gasification Combined-Cycle
($75.0 billion) for 2021, and our Board (IGCC) Power Plant, an Air Separation
increased demand and
recommended capitalizing SAR 15.0 billion Unit, and other ancillary assets for
($4.0 billion) of retained earnings to SAR 44.1 billion ($11.8 billion). These
higher prices for energy
support the distribution of bonus shares transactions demonstrate continued
to shareholders, in the amount of one investor confidence in Aramco’s long-term
products, which translated
share for every 10 shares held. outlook, as well as the attractiveness of
the Kingdom to institutional investors.
into strong financial results.”
Going forward, our financial framework
will remain focused on long-term To further diversify our funding sources
shareholder value creation and centered and expand our investor base, Aramco
around three main pillars. First, we will successfully raised SAR 22.5 billion
continue to prudently optimize our capital ($6.0 billion) through the issuance of our
structure to maintain a high investment inaugural U.S. dollar-denominated Shari’a
grade rating with sufficient capacity. compliant securities. Our offering was the
Second, we will ensure optionality and largest order book ever recorded globally
execution flexibility through diversified for a dollar-denominated sukuk
funding sources with optimized costs. transaction. This successfully expanded
Finally, we will continue our proven our investor pool, primarily by adding
capital discipline and financial prudence international investors seeking Shari’a
through crude oil price cycles. compliant instruments. The healthy
subscription was a strong endorsement
Optimizing capital, unlocking value from international investors as we
continue to broaden our investor base
We continue to maintain our flexible
in line with our financing strategy, while
approach to capital spending, as this
maintaining our strong credit rating.
represents a distinct competitive
advantage for Aramco. Our capital
The integration of SABIC into the Aramco
expenditures increased by 18.4% in 2021
group is progressing ahead of plan, and
to SAR 119.6 billion ($31.9 billion), and we
we have realized SAR 6 billion ($1.6 billion)
expect our 2022 capital expenditures to
in synergies to date. We have implemented
be approximately SAR 150.0 to 187.5 billion
a go-to-market strategy for all products,
($40.0 to 50.0 billion). This reflects our
realigned marketing, and optimized the
belief that hydrocarbons will continue to
38 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 41]
Results and performance
Shareholder value in a carbon-conscious world
Saudi Stock Exchange (Tadawul), Saudi Arabia
Aramco, a major oil producer with one of the lowest upstream carbon intensities and production
costs, is well placed to play a pivotal role in a stable and inclusive global energy transition, and
continues to focus on long-term shareholder value.
commercial and supply chain activities of across wholly-owned operated assets by within the industry, Aramco is well
both companies to enhance the value we 2050. As a complement to our energy positioned to play a pivotal role in a stable
deliver to customers. By 2025, we expect products portfolio, we continue to and inclusive global energy transition.
to capture a total value of approximately pursue the commercial viability of Given Aramco’s unique value proposition,
SAR 11.3 billion to SAR 15.0 billion emerging energy sources such as blue we remain extremely positive about the
($3.0 billion to $4.0 billion) in annual hydrogen and ammonia to primarily growth prospects for our Company in
recurring synergies in multiple areas, sustain and diversify demand for oil an increasingly carbon-conscious world.
including procurement, stream integration, and gas, while enabling our customers
feedstock optimization, and maintenance to deliver on their climate objectives.
activities, among others.
In partnership with the Public Investment Ziad T. Al Murshed
These activities demonstrate Aramco’s Fund and ACWA Power, Aramco also Acting Service Line Head, Finance,
financial strength, agility, and cash entered into a shareholders' agreement for Strategy & Development and
generating ability, enabling the Company a 30% interest in the Sudair Solar PV Plant, Acting Chief Financial Officer
to deliver exceptional shareholder returns. one of the largest solar plants in the region
with a capacity of 1.5 GW. This represents
Investing for the future our first participation in the Public
Investment Fund’s renewables program.
We are investing in advanced technologies
and solutions to further lower our
As a major oil and gas producer with one
emissions to enable the Company to fulfill
of the lowest upstream carbon intensities
its ambition to achieve net-zero Scope 1
and one of the lowest production costs
and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 39
[Page 42]
Financial performance
Continuing global demand recovery
The financial information of Aramco set Portfolio optimization and
forth below, as at December 31, 2021 and value creation program
Aramco completed a
2020, and for the years then ended, has The Company completed a SAR 46.5 billion
SAR 46.5 billion ($12.4 billion) been derived without material adjustment ($12.4 billion) energy infrastructure
from, and is qualified in its entirety by, transaction in June 2021. The transaction
energy infrastructure the Financial Statements contained in involved the sale of a 49% equity interest
Section 8: Consolidated financial statements. in Aramco Oil Pipelines Company (AOPC),
transaction in June 2021.
It should be read in conjunction with the an Aramco subsidiary, to a consortium of
financial statements, Section 5: Risk, and international investors including EIG Global
other financial data included elsewhere Energy Partners and Mubadala. As part of
in this Annual Report. the transaction, AOPC leased and leased
back usage rights in Aramco’s stabilized
Key factors affecting Aramco’s crude oil pipeline network for a 25-year
financial results period in exchange for regular tariff
payments derived from transportation of
The following is a discussion of the most
oil through Aramco’s stabilized crude oil
significant factors that have impacted
pipeline network. Under the terms of the
Aramco’s financial position and results
transaction, Aramco retains full ownership
of operations for the year ended
and operational control of its stabilized
December 31, 2021.
crude oil pipeline network.
Supply, demand and prices for
Aramco entered into a financing
hydrocarbons, and refined and
arrangement of SAR 44.1 billion
chemicals products
($11.8 billion) in September 2021 relating
Aramco’s results of operations and cash
to the Jazan Integrated Gasification
flows are primarily driven by market prices
Combined-Cycle Power Plant, an Air
and volumes sold of hydrocarbons, and
Separation Unit and certain ancillary
refined and chemicals products. Global
assets (together, the facility). The
demand for petroleum products in 2021
transaction resulted in the creation
continued to recover from the lows of
of Jazan Integrated Gasification and
2020, resulting in higher prices for
Power Company (JIGPC), an Aramco joint
hydrocarbons, and improved margins
operation consisting of Saudi Aramco
for refined and chemicals products.
Power Company, Air Products, ACWA
Power and Air Products Qudra. JIGPC
In the Kingdom, the Government regulates
will operate the facility under a 25-year
the oil and gas industry and establishes the
contract for a predetermined monthly
Kingdom’s maximum level of hydrocarbon
fee. Consistent with the terms of the
production in the exercise of its sovereign
transaction, the transfer of the facility to
prerogative. Accordingly, the Government
JIGPC has been recorded as a financing
may in its sole discretion increase or
arrangement and therefore the facility
decrease the Kingdom’s maximum
will remain on the books of Aramco.
hydrocarbon production levels at any
time based on its strategic energy security
goals or for any other reason. Therefore,
Aramco’s results of operations may depend
in part on these sovereign decisions with
respect to production levels.
40 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 43]
Results and performance
International sukuk program Debut U.S. dollar sukuk
In June, Aramco successfully raised
SAR 22.5 billion ($6.0 billion) through
Landmark achievement demonstrating Aramco’s unique value proposition
the issuance of its inaugural international,
U.S. dollar-denominated Shari’a compliant
securities (U.S. dollar sukuk) under the
newly established international sukuk
program. The U.S. dollar sukuk are
listed on the London Stock Exchange’s
main market.
Consolidation of SABIC
>
$6 100
Aramco's 2021 consolidated results B
of operations and cash flows include
raised new investors
SABIC’s full-year results. In comparison,
the 2020 results only included SABIC’s
earnings for the period following
Aramco’s acquisition of a 70% equity
interest, on June 16, 2020. World’s
largest
order book of U.S.
dollar-denominated
Shari’a compliant
securities
3 $60+
B
tranches orders received
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 41
[Page 44]
Financial performance continued All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated
Summarized consolidated statement of income
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 2021 2020 2021 2020 % change
Revenue and other income related to sales 1,501,758 862,091 400,468 229,891 74.2%
Operating costs (729,840) (478,731) (194,624) (127,662) 52.5%
Operating income 771,918 383,360 205,844 102,229 101.4%
Income before income taxes and zakat 769,521 372,424 205,206 99,313 106.6%
Income taxes and zakat (357,125) (188,661) (95,234) (50,310) 89.3%
Net income 412,396 183,763 109,972 49,003 124.4%
Average realized crude oil price ($/bbl) 70.5 40.6 73.6%
ROACE** 24.4% 13.2% 24.4% 13.2% 11.2 pp
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
** Refer to “Non-IFRS measures reconciliations and definitions” for further details.
Financial results Income before income taxes and zakat Income vs. average realized crude price
increased by SAR 397,097 ($105,893), or
Aramco’s strong earnings and cash flows
106.6%, primarily due to higher crude
in 2021 are a reflection of rebounding $ millions $/barrel
oil prices, the consolidation of SABIC’s
global energy demand, coupled with
full-year results, and stronger refining
Aramco’s unique operational flexibility 300,000 70.5 75
and chemicals margins. This was partially
and low-cost base.
offset by higher total purchases and an
240,000 60
Revenues and other income related to increase in production royalties.
sales for the year ended December 31, 180,000 40.6 205,844 45
Income taxes and zakat for the
2021, were SAR 1,501,758 ($400,468),
year ended December 31, 2021, was
compared to SAR 862,091 ($229,891), for 120,000 30
SAR 357,125 ($95,234), compared to
the year ended December 31, 2020. The
SAR 188,661 ($50,310) in 2020. The 102,229 109,972
increase of 74.2% was mainly attributable 60,000 15
increase was mainly driven by higher
to higher crude oil prices, stronger refined
taxable income recorded in 2021. 49,003
and chemicals product prices, and the
2020 2021
consolidation of SABIC’s full-year revenues.
Operating income
Operating costs increased by SAR 251,109 Net income
($66,962), or 52.5%, from SAR 478,731
Average realized crude price
($127,662) to SAR 729,840 ($194,624), for
the years ended December 31, 2020, and
2021, respectively. This was principally
due to an increase in total purchases
driven by higher prices, an increase in
production royalties resulting from
stronger crude oil prices and a higher
average effective royalty rate, and the
consolidation of SABIC’s full-year
operating costs. The increase in operating
costs was partially offset by favorable
inventory movements during the year.
42 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
1,501,758
(729,840)
771,918
400,468 | 229,891
(127,662) | 74.2%
(194,624) |  | 52.5%
205,844 |  | 101.4%
769,521
(357,125)
412,396
205,206
(95,234)
109,972
106.6%
89.3%
124.4%
24.4%
70.5
24.4%
73.6%
11.2 pp
[Page 45]
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated Results and performance
Summarized consolidated balance sheet
SAR USD*
As at December 31 As at December 31
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 2021 2020 2021 2020 % change
Total assets 2,162,690 1,914,261 576,718 510,470 13.0%
Total liabilities 882,022 813,167 235,206 216,845 8.5%
Significant balance sheet movements:
Property, plant and equipment 1,244,316 1,209,460 331,818 322,523 2.9%
Trade receivables 140,373 85,183 37,433 22,715 64.8%
Cash and cash equivalents 299,579 207,232 79,888 55,262 44.6%
Non-controlling interests 167,411 110,246 44,643 29,399 51.9%
Borrowings (non-current and current) 510,921 536,077 136,246 142,954 (4.7)%
Deferred income tax liabilities 74,850 53,621 19,960 14,299 39.6%
Trade and other payables 124,689 93,740 33,251 24,998 33.0%
Income taxes and zakat payable 90,525 42,059 24,140 11,216 115.2%
Gearing** 14.2% 23.0% 14.2% 23.0% (8.8) pp
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
** Refer to “Non-IFRS measures reconciliations and definitions” for further details.
Financial position Total liabilities were SAR 882,022 The reduction in borrowings was driven by
($235,206) at December 31, 2021, the repayment of a term loan facility and
Total assets were SAR 2,162,690 ($576,718)
compared to SAR 813,167 ($216,845), payment of the deferred consideration
as at December 31, 2021, compared to
as at December 31, 2020. The increase related to the SABIC acquisition, partly
SAR 1,914,261 ($510,470), as at December
was primarily due to higher deferred offset by the issuance of the U.S. dollar
31, 2020. The movement was largely due
income tax liabilities, trade and other sukuk and financing proceeds associated
to an increase in property, plant and
payables, and income taxes and zakat with the JIGPC transaction.
equipment, trade receivables and cash
payable, partially offset by a reduction
and cash equivalents.
of borrowings during the current year. Non-controlling interest was SAR 167,411
($44,643) at December 31, 2021, compared
The increase in property, plant and
The increase in deferred income tax to SAR 110,246 ($29,399), at December 31,
equipment reflects higher capital
liabilities is mainly driven by changes 2020. The increase was largely attributable
expenditures in relation to crude oil
in taxable temporary differences to the sale of equity interest in AOPC
increments, the Tanajib Gas Plant, other
associated with property, plant and associated with Aramco’s crude oil
development drilling programs, and
equipment, provisions, and post- pipeline transaction.
additions from SABIC during the year.
employment benefit obligations.
Trade receivables increased mostly
Trade and other payables increased
due to the impact of higher prices for
as a result of higher prices relating
the sale of crude oil and refined and
to purchases of crude oil and refined
chemicals products.
products. Income taxes and zakat
The higher cash and cash equivalents payable increased due to the impact
balance is mainly attributable to an increase of higher taxable income in 2021.
in operating cash flows, cash proceeds
related to Aramco’s crude oil pipeline and
JIGPC transactions, and the issuance of its
U.S. dollar sukuk. This was partially offset
by a net repayment of borrowings.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 43
[TABLE DATA]
2,162,690
882,022
1,244,316
140,373
299,579
167,411
510,921
74,850
124,689
90,525
576,718
235,206
331,818
37,433
79,888
44,643
136,246
19,960
33,251
24,140
13.0%
8.5%
2.9%
64.8%
44.6%
51.9%
(4.7)%
39.6%
33.0%
115.2%
[Page 46]
Financial performance continued All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated
Summarized consolidated statement of cash flows
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 2021 2020 2021 2020 % change
Net cash provided by operating activities 522,601 285,297 139,360 76,079 83.2%
Net cash used in investing activities (135,741) (20,899) (36,197) (5,573) 549.5%
Net cash used in financing activities (294,513) (234,872) (78,537) (62,632) 25.4%
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 299,579 207,232 79,888 55,262 44.6%
Capital expenditures (119,645) (101,030) (31,905) (26,942) 18.4%
Free cash flow** 402,956 184,267 107,455 49,137 118.7%
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
** Refer to “Non-IFRS measures reconciliations and definitions” for further details.
Cash flows Net cash used in financing activities was Cash flows
SAR 294,513 ($78,537) in 2021, compared
Net cash provided by operating activities
with SAR 234,872 ($62,632) in 2020.
was SAR 522,601 ($139,360) for the year $ millions
The increase in financing-related cash
ended December 31, 2021, compared to
outflows of SAR 59,641 ($15,905) mainly
SAR 285,297 ($76,079) reported in 2020. 150,000
reflects higher dividend payments and
The increase of SAR 237,304 ($63,281)
primarily reflects higher earnings net repayment of borrowings, largely 120,000 139,360 (31,905)
attributable to payments of a term loan
resulting from stronger crude oil prices
and improved refining and chemicals facility and deferred consideration related 90,000 107,455
to the SABIC acquisition, partially offset by
margins. This was partially offset by
unfavorable changes in working capital, cash received in association with the U.S. 60,000 76,079 (26,942)
dollar sukuk and the JIGPC transaction.
mainly due to higher receivables driven
The overall increase in cash outflows was 49,137
by stronger prices, and an increase in 30,000
offset by cash received in connection with
cash paid for the settlement of income,
Aramco’s crude oil pipeline transaction.
zakat and other taxes.
2020 2021
Net cash used in investing activities Net cash provided by operating activities
was SAR 135,741 ($36,197) for the year Capital expenditures
ended December 31, 2021, compared to Free cash flow
SAR 20,899 ($5,573) in 2020, an outflow
of SAR 114,842 ($30,624). This was
mainly due to an increase in short-term
investments and the absence of cash
inflows relating to cash acquired on
acquisition of SABIC in 2020. In addition,
net cash in 2021 was also impacted by
an increase in capital expenditures
related to crude oil increments, the
Tanajib Gas Plant, other development
drilling programs, and the consolidation
of SABIC’s full-year capital expenditures.
44 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
522,601
(135,741)
(294,513)
299,579
139,360
(36,197)
(78,537)
79,888
83.2%
549.5%
25.4%
44.6%
(119,645)
402,956
(31,905)
107,455
18.4%
118.7%
[Page 47]
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated Results and performance
Non-IFRS measures reconciliations and definitions
This Annual Report includes certain financial position. The non-IFRS financial Aramco’s industry, may calculate
non-IFRS financial measures (ROACE, measures are not defined by, or presented similarly titled non-IFRS financial
free cash flow, gearing and EBIT) which in accordance with, IFRS. The non-IFRS measures differently from Aramco.
Aramco uses to make informed decisions financial measures are not measurements Because companies do not necessarily
about its financial position and operating of Aramco’s operating performance or calculate these non-IFRS financial
performance or liquidity. These non-IFRS liquidity under IFRS and should not be measures in the same manner, Aramco’s
financial measures have been included used instead of, or considered as presentation of such non-IFRS financial
in this Report to facilitate a better alternatives to, any measures of measures may not be comparable to
understanding of Aramco’s historical performance or liquidity under IFRS. The other similarly titled non-IFRS financial
trends of operation and financial position. non-IFRS financial measures relate to the measures used by other companies.
reporting periods described in this Annual
Aramco uses non-IFRS financial measures Report and are not intended to be
as supplementary information to its predictive of future results. In addition,
IFRS-based operating performance and other companies, including those in
Return on average capital employed (ROACE)
ROACE measures the efficiency of applicable period. Aramco utilizes ROACE reflecting stronger crude oil prices,
Aramco’s utilization of capital. Aramco to evaluate management’s performance improved refining and chemicals margins,
defines ROACE as net income before and demonstrate to its shareholders that and the consolidation of SABIC’s full-year
finance costs, net of income taxes and capital has been used effectively. results. This was partially offset by higher
zakat, as a percentage of average capital average capital employed during the year,
employed, calculated on a 12-month ROACE for the year ended December 31, mainly resulting from the acquisition of
rolling basis. Average capital employed is 2021, was 24.4%, compared to 13.2% SABIC in June 2020.
the average of total borrowings plus total in 2020. This increase was primarily
equity at the beginning and end of the attributable to higher earnings, mainly
SAR USD*
Twelve months ended Twelve months ended ROACE
December 31 December 31
All amounts in millions unless
otherwise stated 2021 2020 2021 2020 %
Net income 412,396 183,763 109,972 49,003
Finance costs, net of income
taxes and zakat 6,029 5,282 1,608 1,409
Net income before finance costs,
net of income taxes and zakat 418,425 189,045 111,580 50,412 2021
24.4
As at period start:
Non-current borrowings 436,920 150,690 116,512 40,184
Current borrowings 99,157 24,895 26,442 6,639
Total equity 1,101,094 1,046,235 293,625 278,996
2020
Capital employed 1,637,171 1,221,820 436,579 325,819
13.2
As at period end:
Non-current borrowings 436,371 436,920 116,366 116,512
Current borrowings 74,550 99,157 19,880 26,442
Total equity 1,280,668 1,101,094 341,512 293,625
Capital employed 1,791,589 1,637,171 477,758 436,579
Average capital employed 1,714,380 1,429,496 457,169 381,199
ROACE 24.4% 13.2% 24.4% 13.2%
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 45
[TABLE DATA]
412,396
6,029
418,425
436,920
99,157
1,101,094
1,637,171
436,371
74,550
1,280,668
1,791,589
1,714,380
24.4%
109,972
1,608
111,580
116,512
26,442
293,625
436,579
116,366
19,880
341,512
477,758
457,169
24.4%
[Page 48]
Financial performance continued All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated
Free cash flow
Aramco uses free cash flow to evaluate cash flows, mainly driven by stronger Free cash flow
its cash available for financing activities, crude oil prices and improved refining
including dividend payments. Aramco and chemicals margins. This was $ billions
defines free cash flow as net cash partially offset by unfavorable changes
provided by operating activities less in working capital, higher cash paid for
capital expenditures. the settlement of income, zakat and other
taxes, an increase in capital expenditures
Free cash flow in 2021 was SAR 402,956 related to crude oil increments, the
($107,455), compared to SAR 184,267 Tanajib Gas Plant, other development 2021
($49,137) in 2020, an increase of drilling programs, and the consolidation
SAR 218,689 ($58,318), or 118.7%. of SABIC’s full-year capital expenditures. 107
This was largely due to higher operating
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
2020
All amounts in millions unless
49
otherwise stated 2021 2020 2021 2020
Net cash provided by
operating activities 522,601 285,297 139,360 76,079
Capital expenditures (119,645) (101,030) (31,905) (26,942)
Free cash flow 402,956 184,267 107,455 49,137
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
Gearing
Gearing is a measure of the degree to Aramco’s gearing ratio was 14.2% as at Gearing
which Aramco’s operations are financed December 31, 2021, compared to 23.0%
by debt. Aramco defines gearing as the as at December 31, 2020. The decrease in %
ratio of net debt (total borrowings less gearing was a result of higher cash and
cash and cash equivalents) to net debt cash equivalents as at December 31, 2021,
plus total equity. Management believes mainly driven by stronger operating cash
that gearing is widely used by analysts flows attributable to higher crude oil
2021
and investors in the oil and gas industry prices, improved refining and chemicals
to indicate a company’s financial health margins, the consolidation of SABIC’s
14.2
and flexibility. full-year results and cash proceeds in
connection with Aramco’s crude oil
pipeline transaction.
SAR USD* 2020
As at December 31 As at December 31 23.0
All amounts in millions unless
otherwise stated 2021 2020 2021 2020
Total borrowings (current
and non-current) 510,921 536,077 136,246 142,954
Cash and cash equivalents (299,579) (207,232) (79,888) (55,262)
Net debt 211,342 328,845 56,358 87,692
Total equity 1,280,668 1,101,094 341,512 293,625
Total equity and net debt 1,492,010 1,429,939 397,870 381,317
Gearing 14.2% 23.0% 14.2% 23.0%
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
46 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
522,601
(119,645)
402,956
139,360
(31,905)
107,455
510,921
(299,579)
211,342
1,280,668
1,492,010
14.2%
136,246
(79,888)
56,358
341,512
397,870
14.2%
[Page 49]
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated Results and performance
Earnings before interest, income taxes and zakat (EBIT)
Aramco defines EBIT as net income EBIT for 2021 was SAR 780,174 ($208,046), EBIT
plus finance costs and income taxes compared to SAR 380,217 ($101,391)
and zakat, less finance income. Aramco in 2020. This increase of SAR 399,957 $ billions
believes EBIT provides useful information ($106,655), or 105.2%, principally
regarding its financial performance to reflects the impact of stronger crude oil
analysts and investors. prices, improved refining and chemicals
margins, and the consolidation of SABIC’s
full-year results.
2021
SAR USD* 208
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
All amounts in millions unless
otherwise stated 2021 2020 2021 2020
Net income 412,396 183,763 109,972 49,003
Finance income (1,405) (2,771) (375) (739) 2020
Finance costs 12,058 10,564 3,215 2,817 101
Income taxes and zakat 357,125 188,661 95,234 50,310
Earnings before interest,
income taxes and zakat 780,174 380,217 208,046 101,391
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 47
[TABLE DATA]
412,396
(1,405)
12,058
357,125
780,174
109,972
(375)
3,215
95,234
208,046
[Page 52]
Upstream continued
Upstream overview
The Upstream segment’s activities consist The Concession also requires Aramco
of exploring for, developing and producing to meet domestic demand for certain
crude oil, condensate, natural gas and NGL. hydrocarbons, petroleum products
Aramco manages the Kingdom’s unique and LPGs through domestic production
reserves and resource base to optimize or imports.
production and maximize long-term
value pursuant to the Hydrocarbons Law. As at December 31, 2021, Aramco’s
Under this mandate, Aramco's hydrocarbon reserves under the Concession agreement
operations aim to promote long-term were 253.6 billion boe (2020: 255.2 billion
productivity of the Kingdom’s reservoirs boe), including 196.9 billion barrels (2020:
and support the prudent stewardship of 198.8 billion barrels) of crude oil and
its hydrocarbon resources. condensate, 25.2 billion barrels (2020:
25.2 billion barrels) of NGL, and 194.5 tscf
As set out in the Concession, Aramco has (2020: 191.6 tscf) of natural gas.
the exclusive rights to explore, develop
and produce the Kingdom’s hydrocarbon The Government determines the
resources, except in the Excluded Areas, Kingdom’s maximum level of crude
for an initial period of 40 years, to be oil production in the exercise of its
extended by the Government for 20 years sovereign prerogative and requires
provided Aramco satisfies certain Aramco to maintain MSC in excess of its
Our Upstream business conditions commensurate with current then current production in accordance
operating practices. In addition, the with the Hydrocarbons Law. MSC was
pulled together in the face
Concession may be extended for an maintained at 12.0 mmbpd for the year
additional 40 years beyond this 60-year ended December 31, 2021.
of challenging circumstances
period subject to Aramco and the
Government agreeing the terms of the
to maintain Aramco’s well-
extension. The provision of a specified
known standard of reliability term in the Concession impacts the
calculation of Aramco’s reserves as
and achieve substantial compared to the Kingdom’s reserves
in the fields Aramco operates.
progress on our long-term
goals. With our Company’s
net-zero ambition, we
continue our focus on further
reducing our carbon footprint
while maintaining our
leadership in the industry,
Key events in 2021
and ensuring the health and Started to proceed with the
Government’s mandate for
well-being of our communities
MSC to be increased from
remains our first priority.” 12.0 mmbpd to 13.0 mmbpd.
Nasir K. Al-Naimi
Senior Vice President, Upstream
Commenced the development of
the vast Jafurah unconventional
gas field, the largest non-
associated gas field in the
Kingdom.
50 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 53]
Results and performance
In line with the Government’s mandate In 2021, Aramco also maintained
for MSC to be increased to 13.0 mmbpd, its position as one of the lowest-cost
Aramco is proceeding with its plans to producers globally. The average upstream 9.2
mmbpd
gradually reach the mandated MSC by lifting cost was SAR 11.3 ($3.0) per boe
2027 through multiple increments. The produced in both 2021 and 2020, while the Average crude oil production in 2021.
spare capacity afforded by maintaining upstream capital expenditures averaged
MSC enables Aramco to rapidly increase SAR 18.4 ($4.9) (2020: SAR 15.0 ($4.0)) per
its crude oil production above planned boe produced. This competitive advantage
levels in response to changing global is a result of the Company’s robust fiscal
crude oil supply and demand, as an discipline and is further strengthened by
alternative supply option in case of the unique nature of the Company’s oil
unplanned production outages at any in place endowment and its thoughtful
field and to maintain production levels stewardship over generations. The
during routine field maintenance. Kingdom’s geological formations,
favorable onshore and shallow water
In 2021, Aramco maintained its position offshore reservoirs, best-in-class reservoir
as one of the world’s largest producers of management and the sheer scale of its
crude oil and condensate with an average hydrocarbon reserves are industry
total daily hydrocarbon production of differentiators. Moreover, synergies
12.3 mmboed (2020: 12.4 mmboed), created by effectively leveraging the
including 9.2 mmbpd (2020: 9.2 mmbpd) large infrastructure and logistics
of crude oil1. For the year ended December networks, low-depletion rate operating
31, 2021, approximately 84% (2020: 84%) model, and its scaled application of
of the aggregate hydrocarbon production technology, all combine to deliver its
consisted of liquids, which generally competitive advantage.
command a higher margin.
1. Includes blended condensate and AGOC’s share of the production in the partitioned territory and its adjoining
offshore areas in accordance with the agreements between the Kingdom and the State of Kuwait, but excluding
the Kingdom of Bahrain’s entitlement to volumes produced from the Abu Sa’fah field.
Successfully completed the Maintained low upstream carbon Achieved a new single-day
‘Ain Dar and Fazran crude intensity of 11.2 kg of COe/boe. natural gas production record
2
oil increments. of 10.8 bscfd.
Maintained its low-cost position Commissioned the Dammam-7 Maintained total hydrocarbon
with average lifting cost and supercomputer which is among reserves under the Concession
average capital expenditures of the most powerful in the world agreement at 253.6 billion boe.
SAR 11.3 ($3.0) and SAR 18.4 ($4.9) with a processing capacity of
per boe produced, respectively. 55.4 petaflops.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 51
[Page 54]
Upstream continued All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated
Upstream hydrocarbon production
Year ended December 31
2021 2020 % change
Crude oil1 mbpd 9,219 9,236 (0.2)%
Condensate mbpd 175 194 (9.8)%
Natural gasoline mbpd 200 201 (0.5)%
Butane mbpd 291 303 (4.0)%
Propane mbpd 474 500 (5.2)%
Total liquids mbpd 10,359 10,434 (0.7)%
Natural gas mmscfd 9,202 9,034 1.9%
Ethane mmscfd 934 950 (1.7)%
Total gas mmscfd 10,136 9,984 1.5%
Total hydrocarbon production2 mboed 12,343 12,392 (0.4)%
1. Includes AGOC’s oil production and blended condensate and excludes the Kingdom of Bahrain’s entitlement to volumes produced from the Abu Sa’fah field.
2. Total hydrocarbon production (mboed) is derived from mmscfd (for natural gas and ethane) by dividing the relevant product production by 5.400 (in the case of natural gas)
and 3.330 (in the case of ethane).
Upstream financial results
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 2021 2020 2021 2020 % change
Revenue and other income related to sales
(including inter-segment revenue) 1,015,437 605,470 270,783 161,459 67.7%
Earnings before interest, income taxes and zakat 750,118 413,214 200,031 110,190 81.5%
Capital expenditures – cash basis 88,758 73,651 23,669 19,640 20.5%
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
Earnings before interest, income taxes and Capital expenditures in 2021 increased
zakat (EBIT) for the year ended December by 20.5%, compared to the year ended
31, 2021, totaled SAR 750,118 ($200,031), December 31, 2020, from SAR 73,651
compared to SAR 413,214 ($110,190) in ($19,640) to SAR 88,758 ($23,669).
2020, an increase of SAR 336,904 ($89,841), This increase was primarily due to
or 81.5%. This remarkable increase in increased activities in relation to crude
EBIT was mainly driven by the favorable oil increments, the Tanajib Gas Plant, and
movements in average realized crude oil other development drilling programs.
prices following the improved energy
market conditions in 2021.
52 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
9,219 | 9,236
194
201
303
500 | (0.2)%
175 |  | (9.8)%
200 |  | (0.5)%
291 |  | (4.0)%
474 |  | (5.2)%
10,359 | 10,434 | (0.7)%
9,202 | 9,034
950 | 1.9%
934 |  | (1.7)%
10,136 | 9,984 | 1.5%
12,343 | 12,392 | (0.4)%
1,015,437
750,118
88,758
270,783 | 161,459
110,190
19,640 | 67.7%
|  |
200,031 |  | 81.5%
|  |
23,669 |  | 20.5%
[Page 55]
Results and performance
Investing for energy security
Fabrication yard in Dammam, Saudi Arabia
Aramco maintains a highly disciplined and flexible approach to capital allocation, and
during 2021 construction progress continued at the fabrication yard for the Marjan and
Berri increment programs.
Upstream operations
Crude oil Aramco’s principal fields are located
in close proximity to each other within
Overview Aramco actively manages
the Central and Eastern Provinces of
Aramco actively manages its prolific
the Kingdom. Aramco believes that its its prolific reserves base to
reserves base to maximize long-term value
portfolio includes the world’s largest
while optimizing ultimate recovery from
discovered conventional onshore oil maximize long-term value
its fields. Because of the size, number, and
field (Ghawar) and largest discovered
spare capacity of its fields, the Company is while optimizing ultimate
conventional offshore oil field (Safaniyah).
able to maintain its desired level of overall
production by tapping into new reservoirs The crude oil, condensate, natural gas and recovery from its fields.
NGL that Aramco produces from its fields
when required to improve long-term value
travel through the extensive network
through portfolio capacity optimization.
of pipelines to multiple facilities for
Diversification of supply sources for crude
processing into refined and petrochemical
oil from new reservoirs has the benefit
products, or to domestic customers or
of allowing lower depletion rates from
export terminals. In particular, Aramco’s
existing fields and deferring costs for
East-West Pipeline is critical in linking
additional wells and facilities to handle
oil production facilities in the Eastern
higher total fluid displacement rates at
Province with Yanbu’ on the west coast,
such fields.
and providing flexibility to export from
the east and west coasts of the Kingdom.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 53
[Page 56]
Upstream continued
Dammam-7 supercomputer • Upstream continues to invest in
cutting-edge technologies and digital
Technology and innovation growth enabler transformation programs. In January
2021, Aramco and Saudi Telecom
Company commissioned the Dammam-7
supercomputer. Named after Saudi
Digital Processing
Dammam-7 Arabia's first successful oil well, the
transformation capacity
Dammam-7 supercomputer is among
• Shaping core the most powerful in the world with a
operations processing capacity of 55.4 petaflops.
• Enhancing exploration 55.4 Dammam-7 is capable of running
and production detailed three-dimensional earth
• Enabling long-term petaflops models with the intent of improving
growth exploration and development successes
while reducing associated risks; and
• The World Economic Forum has
recognized a third Aramco facility,
Abqaiq, for its pioneering adoption and
integration of cutting-edge technologies
Aramco owns and operates the Abqaiq Performance and achievements of the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR).
facility, which is its largest oil processing Highlights are listed below: The Abqaiq oil processing facility, the
facility and the largest crude oil largest oil processing plant in the world,
stabilization plant in the world. Aramco • The ‘Ain Dar and Fazran crude oil joins Aramco’s 'Uthmaniyah Gas Plant
also operates four crude export terminals increments have been completed and Khurais oil complex in the Forum’s
that contribute to its operational flexibility and successfully tied-in. These projects prestigious Global Lighthouse Network.
and supply reliability. In addition, Aramco are targeting secondary reservoirs with Global Lighthouse status is awarded to
has strategic international delivery points a combined production capacity of projects that demonstrate leadership in
located in Rotterdam (the Netherlands), 175 mbpd; 4IR technologies to transform factories,
Ain Sukhna (Egypt), Fujairah (United Arab • The Marjan and Berri crude oil increment value chains and business models and
Emirates) and Okinawa (Japan). programs are in the final stages of is a testament to the importance
detailed engineering, and construction Aramco places on its Digital
Aramco consistently produces five grades
activities continue to progress. The Transformation Program.
of Arabian crude oil: Arabian Super Light,
Marjan and Berri projects are expected
Arabian Extra Light, Arabian Light,
to add production capacity of 300 mbpd Gas and NGL
Arabian Medium, and Arabian Heavy.
These crude grades and the wide range and 250 mbpd, respectively, by 2025; Overview
of blends that can be produced from • Construction activities are continuing Aramco’s non-associated gas fields vary
them are compatible with most global on the Dammam development project, widely in reservoir properties, depths,
refineries. In 2021, Arabian Super Light, which is expected to add 25 mbpd pressures and compositions. In general,
Arabian Extra Light and Arabian Light and 50 mbpd of crude oil by 2024 and the southern area around the Ghawar
accounted for approximately 66% 2026, respectively; field has rich gas at moderate depths and
(2020: 69%) of Aramco’s total crude permeability, while the northern offshore
oil production and were classified as • The Zuluf crude oil increment is expected fields (Karan, Arabiyah and Hasbah) have
premium grades. Cumulatively, Aramco to provide a central facility to process a leaner gas in deeper reservoirs with high
produced 9.2 mmbpd (2020: 9.2 mmbpd) total of 600 mbpd of crude oil from the permeability. Additionally, Aramco’s
of crude oil (including AGOC’s oil Zuluf field by 2026. The facility will also crude oil production provides a base load
production and blended condensate, be equipped to process associated gas, of associated gas, which is rich in liquids.
condensate and produced water;
but excluding the Kingdom of Bahrain’s
entitlement to volumes produced from the
Abu Sa’fah field), of which approximately
5.2 mmbpd (2020: 5.6 mmbpd) was sold
to third-party customers. In 2021,
Aramco’s Downstream business was the
largest customer of Upstream’s crude oil,
consuming approximately 43% of its
crude oil production (2020: 39%).
54 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 57]
Results and performance
Aramco’s primary natural gas processing Pursuant to the Concession, Aramco is Additionally, effective January 1, 2020,
and fractionation facilities are located in the exclusive supplier of natural gas in LPGs and certain other products were
Ghawar and the northern and western the Kingdom. Aramco sells natural gas added to the price equalization mechanism
areas of the Kingdom. The Company’s to power generation plants primarily to compensate Aramco for revenue directly
facilities are strategically located near its pursuant to long-term contracts and to forgone as a result of its compliance with
fields to reduce transportation and pipeline customers in the Kingdom’s industrial the Government mandates related to
compression costs, as well as the time sector. The supply of natural gas to domestic sales of those products by the
required to deliver gas products to domestic customers is regulated by the Company. Aramco also exports a portion
marketplace. As at December 31, 2021, the Law of Gas Supplies and Pricing (GSPR), of its NGL production.
total conventional and unconventional raw and the prices paid by domestic customers
gas processing capacity was 18.3 bscfd are set by resolutions issued from time to In 2021, Aramco produced approximately
(2020: 18.3 bscfd), which primarily feeds time by the Council of Ministers. 9.2 bscfd of natural gas (2020: 9.0 bscfd),
into the Master Gas System (MGS), an 0.9 bscfd of ethane (2020: 1.0 bscfd), and
extensive network of pipelines that 0.2 mmbpd of unblended condensate
connects Aramco’s key gas production and (2020: 0.2 mmbpd). NGL production in
processing sites throughout the Kingdom. 2021 was 1.0 mmbpd (2020: 1.0 mmbpd).
CO capture and reinjection
2
Hawiyah NGL Recovery Plant, Saudi Arabia
Carbon capture, utilization and storage are important in meeting climate goals, and Aramco's
carbon dioxide (CO) capture and reinjection project has returned CO underground since 2015.
2 2
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 55
[Page 58]
Upstream continued
Performance and achievements Exploration Natural gas
In 2021, Aramco continued to progress Aramco’s non-associated gas exploration
Overview
a number of major gas projects within activities have yielded a number of major
Through Aramco’s exploration program,
the Kingdom to meet domestic demand. discoveries, with particular success in the
the Company continued its efforts to
The Company also achieved a historic Ghawar area and in deep reservoirs in the
achieve the strategic objectives and
single-day production record, producing Arabian Gulf. Aramco has enjoyed high
associated targets of growing the
10.8 bscfd of natural gas during the success rates in locating new reserves
Kingdom’s original oil in place endowment
peak-demand summer months. in known hydrocarbon basins adjacent
and increasing the Kingdom's non-
to its existing fields and production
associated gas initially in place endowment.
Major gas projects throughout 2021 infrastructure, allowing it to meet
The program is aligned with strategic value
were as follows: growing domestic demand at low-cost,
drivers to maximize profitability and lower
while also exploring in new basins with
future finding and development costs
• The Hawiyah Gas Plant expansion, part high potential.
through exploring for high-value premium
of the Haradh Gas increment program,
crude and accelerating infrastructure-led
is in an advanced stage of construction Aramco is looking to further expand
gas exploration and delineation programs.
and is expected to be on-stream in 2022; its natural gas reserves through new
field discoveries, new reservoir additions
• The Hawiyah and Haradh compression Crude oil
in existing fields, and the delineation
projects are in the later stages of The majority of Aramco’s current crude
and reassessment of existing reservoirs
completion, with both due to come oil exploration activities are focused in
and fields.
on-stream by the end of 2022 adding the Eastern Province, with lower levels
1.3 bscfd of raw gas; of exploration and expenditure in
Unconventional resources
known hydrocarbon-bearing basins in
• The Hawiyah Unayzah reservoir gas Aramco, through its unconventional
the Rub’ al-Khali, Northwest and Summan
storage program is approaching the resource program, is assessing several areas
regions. Aramco places strong emphasis
final engineering design phase, and within the Kingdom for their potential to
on improving the operational performance
procurement and construction activities deliver gas and associated liquids to help
of its drilling activities by applying
continue to progress. The program is meet future domestic energy needs. The
innovative technologies and
designed to provide up to 2.0 bscfd of unconventional resource program consists
benchmarking of key metrics to
gas for reintroduction into the MGS of exploration activities, pilots, producing
identify trends and potential areas for
by 2024; and wells and production facilities, with the
enhancement. Aramco believes that its
objective of developing unconventional
• Construction continues at the Tanajib Gas approach to drilling and development
gas resources in support of the Kingdom’s
Plant, part of the Marjan development has led to high levels of well integrity.
growing demand for gas, and to offset the
program. Once completed, the project
use of crude oil for power generation.
will add 2.5 bscfd of additional
processing capacity from Marjan,
Safaniyah and Zuluf fields. The project
is expected to be on-stream by 2025.
Aramco places strong
emphasis on improving the
operational performance of its
drilling activities by applying
innovative technologies and
benchmarking of key metrics
to identify trends and potential
areas for enhancement.
56 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 59]
Results and performance
Jafurah basin development
Expanding gas operations through unconventional gas
Supports Awarded contract value
• R ising demand for high-value
$10
petrochemicals feedstock B
• Domestic emissions avoidance
Expected sustainable natural gas
• Low-carbon hydrogen
Estimated gas in place production capacity by 2030
production
200 2
tscf bscfd
Performance and achievements The Company has awarded subsurface and
Aramco’s exploration activities resulted in engineering, procurement and construction By 2027 MSC is expected to increase to
the discovery of five gas fields including contracts worth $10.0 billion for the Jafurah
two unconventional discoveries. Gas Plant and gas compression facilities, as 13.0
mmbpd
well as infrastructure and related surface
In support of Aramco’s plan to develop its facilities. The facility will be developed
from 12.0 mmbpd, as Aramco is
unconventional resources, in November in different phases and is expected to
implementing the Government's
2021 Aramco started the development of reach its planned processing capacity of
expansion directive.
the vast Jafurah unconventional gas field. 3.1 bscfd by 2027. Gas has a critical role
This is the largest non-associated gas field to play in the energy transition and it will
in the Kingdom and it hosts the largest help significantly reduce emissions in the
liquids-rich shale gas development in the domestic energy sector, while providing
Middle East with an estimated 200 tscf a feedstock for low-carbon hydrogen
of gas in place. The field is spread over an and ammonia.
area measuring 17,000 km2 and production
of natural gas at Jafurah is expected to Outlook for 2022
increase from 200 mmscfd in 2025 to
Aramco will continue its investments
reach a sustainable gas rate of 2.0 bscfd
in future growth projects including the
of natural gas by 2030.
MSC expansion to 13.0 mmbpd.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 57
[Page 62]
Downstream continued
Downstream overview
Aramco has a large, strategically Aramco’s net refining capacity totals
integrated global downstream business. 4.0 mmbpd at December 31, 2021
The Downstream segment’s activities (2020: 3.6 mmbpd), while the gross
consist of refining and petrochemical refining capacity at December 31, 2021,
manufacturing, base oils and lubricants, was 6.8 mmbpd (2020: 6.4 mmbpd).
retail operations, distribution, supply and
trading, and power generation. These Aramco also has an integrated
support Aramco’s Upstream and petrochemicals business within its
Downstream businesses by enabling it to Downstream segment, which captures
optimize crude oil sales and product additional incremental value. Aramco’s
placement through its significant chemicals business spans from production
infrastructure network of pipelines and of basic chemicals such as aromatics, olefins
terminals, and to access shipping and and polyolefins, to more complex products
logistics resources. such as polyols, isocyanates and synthetic
rubber. The chemicals business continues
The strategic integration of Aramco’s to grow through capacity expansions and
Upstream and Downstream segments increasing ownership positions in affiliates
provides an opportunity for Aramco to and new investments, including the
secure crude oil demand by selling to acquisition of the PIF’s 70% equity interest
its dedicated system of domestic and in SABIC on June 16, 2020. SABIC is a
Downstream’s record
international wholly-owned and affiliated globally diversified chemicals company
refineries. In 2021, Aramco’s downstream with manufacturing in the Americas,
earnings in 2021 highlight
operations consumed 43% (2020: 39%) of Europe, Middle East, and Asia Pacific.
its crude oil production.
our focus on operational
Aramco’s downstream investments
performance, our strong
diversify its revenue and integrate its
oil and gas operations to optimize value
safety record, and our ongoing
across the hydrocarbon chain, supporting
integration efforts with SABIC. crude oil and gas demand and facilitating
the placement of its crude oil.
We continued to optimize
our portfolio via the sale of
an interest in our oil and gas
Key events in 2021
pipelines business, we’ve Signed a SAR 58.1 billion
($15.5 billion) energy
launched our Aramco-
infrastructure deal to divest
branded retail business, 49% of Aramco Gas Pipelines
Company (AGPC) to a consortium
and we’ve embarked on a of investors that closed in
February 2022.
portfolio-wide transformation
program which will further
strengthen our earnings
potential in the years to come.” Maintained Aramco's strong Completed a SAR 46.5 billion
reputation for dependable ($12.4 billion) energy
Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani
operations with 99.9% infrastructure deal to divest 49%
Senior Vice President, Downstream
reliability in 2021. of Aramco Oil Pipelines Company
(AOPC) to a consortium of
international investors.
60 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 63]
Results and performance
Following the SABIC acquisition, Aramco’s Aramco’s ongoing initiatives focus on
chemicals business now operates in over optimizing petrochemicals integration at
50 countries. Including SABIC, Aramco existing facilities, and capturing additional 43
%
had a net chemicals production capacity value across the hydrocarbon chain. Two
of 53.8 million tons per year as at such projects, both currently in the FEED of Aramco's Upstream crude oil
December 31, 2021 (2020: 53.1 million stage, include the development of an production was consumed by its
tons per year). olefins cracker and polyethylene complex Downstream operations in 2021.
that will be integrated at the SATORP
Aramco's majority interest in SABIC refinery, in partnership with TotalEnergies,
increases the proportion of petrochemicals and the development of an olefins cracker
production in its Downstream portfolio and and polyethylene complex, combined with
supports its downstream growth ambitions. the first deployment of Aramco’s oil-to-
In addition, this acquisition facilitates the chemicals technology, integrated with
application of SABIC’s expertise in the the S-Oil Refinery in Ulsan, South Korea.
chemicals industry to Aramco’s existing
and future integrated downstream In 2021, the Downstream segment
facilities. Aramco’s investment in SABIC, embarked on a transformation program,
and having it become the chemicals arm seeking to unlock incremental value from
as well as an integral member of the its portfolio through yield enhancements,
Aramco group, makes Aramco a major stream integration and cost reductions. In
global producer of petrochemicals, and support of this effort, a new downstream
expands its capabilities in procurement, operating model has been implemented,
manufacturing, marketing and sales, and creating a more agile business.
supports Aramco’s liquids-to-chemicals
conversion strategies.
Entered into a financing Opened the first Aramco- Entered into a shareholders'
arrangement of SAR 44.1 billion branded service station in agreement, in partnership
($11.8 billion) in connection with Riyadh, as part of a joint venture with PIF and ACWA Power,
the Jazan Integrated Gasification with TotalEnergies to develop a for a 30% interest in the
Combined-Cycle Power Plant and premium retail network in the 1.5 GW Sudair Solar PV
associated infrastructure. Kingdom, and launched a new Plant project.
line of lubricants products under
the ORIZON® brand.
Consolidated marketing and Achieved financial close for the Started-up the Jazan Refinery
sales of petrochemicals under establishment of the Tanajib with work progressing well
SABIC, and fuel products under Cogeneration Power Company to reach the 400 mbpd design
Aramco Trading Company. (TCPC), in which Aramco will capacity.
hold a 40% working interest
and receive all volumes of
electricity, steam and water
produced by TCPC.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 61
[Page 64]
Downstream continued All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated
Downstream financial results
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 2021 2020 2021 2020 % change
Revenue and other income related to sales
(including inter-segment revenue) 823,028 441,221 219,474 117,659 86.5%
Earnings (losses) before interest, income taxes and zakat 62,190 (20,170) 16,584 (5,379) 408.3%
Capital expenditures – cash basis 28,724 26,097 7,660 6,959 10.1%
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
Earnings (losses) before interest, driven by improved refining and chemicals Capital expenditures increased by
income taxes and zakat (EBIT) for the margins as energy market fundamentals 10.1% from SAR 26,097 ($6,959) in 2020
year ended December 31, 2021, was a improved. EBIT was further enhanced by to SAR 28,724 ($7,660) in 2021. This
profit of SAR 62,190 ($16,584), compared to the first full-year of consolidation of increase was primarily attributable to the
a loss of SAR 20,170 ($5,379) in 2020. This SABIC’s results. consolidation of SABIC’s full-year capital
significant recovery in earnings was mainly expenditures, partly offset by lower
spend on projects nearing completion.
Innovating cleaner fuels
Dhahran, Saudi Arabia
A research engineer conducts commercial testing of Aramco's
patented catalyst technology, which is deployed in the Company's
Riyadh and Ras Tanura refineries and brings leading production
efficiency and emissions mitigation benefits to refining.
62 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
823,028
62,190
28,724
219,474 | 117,659
(5,379)
6,959 | 86.5%
|  |
16,584 |  | 408.3%
|  |
7,660 |  | 10.1%
[Page 65]
Results and performance
Downstream operations
Refining Domestic refining International refining
Aramco’s in-Kingdom refineries, both In addition to increasing its in-Kingdom
Overview
wholly-owned and affiliated, receive their refining capability, Aramco seeks to
Aramco operates one of the world’s largest
crude oil supply from Aramco’s upstream expand its strategically integrated
refining businesses, with gross refining
production. These refineries accounted Downstream business in high-growth
capacity of 6.8 mmbpd as at December 31,
for 64% of Aramco’s net refining capacity economies such as China, India and
2021 (December 31, 2020: 6.4 mmbpd),
in 2021 (December 31, 2020: 59%). Southeast Asia, while maintaining its
and net refining capacity of 4.0 mmbpd
Together with the local distribution current participation in material demand
(December 31, 2020: 3.6 mmbpd). Aramco’s
system, this provides Aramco unique centers, such as the United States and
refining operations are conducted in the
access to the large domestic marketplace Europe, and countries that rely on
Kingdom and internationally through
to which it is the sole supplier. importing crude oil, such as Japan
wholly-owned and affiliated refineries.
and South Korea.
The refining operations allow Aramco to
In 2021, Aramco placed 27% (2020: 23%)
transform its crude oil and NGL into refined
of its crude oil production to in-Kingdom Aramco has invested in two refining
products for sale within the Kingdom and
wholly-owned and affiliated refineries. and petrochemical joint ventures with
internationally.
Aramco’s equity share of refined products PETRONAS, collectively known as
and the refined products produced PRefChem. These assets are located in
Specifically, Aramco designs and
through its wholly-owned refineries Johor, Malaysia, adjacent to Singapore,
configures its refining system to optimize
located within the Kingdom are primarily Asia’s refined products trading hub. These
production using the crude oil it produces.
distributed wholesale to domestic fuel facilities had commenced start-up in the
This helps reduce supply chain cost and
retailers and industrial customers through second half of 2019; however, operations
improve efficiency in refining operations,
Aramco’s pipelines, distribution and were postponed and are planned to
and therefore the supply of refined
terminals system. restart in the second quarter of 2022.
products to its downstream customers.
Aramco will provide a significant
Domestic wholly-owned proportion of PRefChem’s crude supply
refining operations under a long-term supply agreement.
Following the start-up of the Jazan Aramco believes this presents an
Refinery, Aramco has five wholly-owned expansion opportunity in Southeast
refineries in the Kingdom, which help to Asia and opens up new markets for
6.8 meet domestic refined product demand. its crude oil production.
mmbpd
Domestic affiliated refining operations
Gross refining capacity
Aramco’s four domestic affiliated
as at December 31, 2021.
refineries within the Kingdom are
highly competitive with other world-class
facilities based on scale, configuration and
Aramco seeks to expand its
product yields. Through long-term supply
agreements with these ventures, Aramco strategically integrated
has the right to supply all crude processed
at these refineries. Downstream business in
high-growth economies such
as China, India and Southeast
Asia, while maintaining its
current participation in
material demand centers.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 63
[Page 66]
Downstream continued
In 2021, Aramco’s weighted average Aramco’s chemicals business continues
ownership percentage in its international to grow through capacity expansion in
53.8 refineries was 41% (2020: 42%), but it the Kingdom, and increasing ownership
million tons
supplied an average of 54% (2020: 54%) positions in affiliates and new investments,
per year of the crude oil used by those refineries. including its acquisition of the PIF’s 70%
This crude placement provides significant equity interest in SABIC in June 2020.
Net chemicals production capacity benefits to Aramco’s operations, including SABIC is an industry leader in multiple
as at December 31, 2021. a secure and reliable supply of high- chemical segments, and produces a
quality crude oil, which helps to ensure wide range of products including olefins,
a secure and reliable supply of refined methanol, MTBE, aromatics, glycols, linear
products to its downstream customers. alpha olefins, polyethylene, polypropylene,
polyethylene terephthalate, polyvinyl
The net refining capacity of Aramco’s chloride, polystyrene, polycarbonate,
international wholly-owned and and engineering thermoplastics and
affiliated refineries was 1.5 mmbpd their blends. Including SABIC, Aramco
(2020: 1.5 mmbpd). Product sales by had a net chemicals production capacity of
Aramco’s international ventures are 53.8 million tons per year as at December 31,
facilitated through multiple distribution 2021 (2020: 53.1 million tons per year).
channels, including systems owned by the
respective affiliates through a network Aramco’s investment in SABIC makes it a
of over 17,000 branded service stations. major global producer of petrochemicals
and expands its capabilities in
Performance and achievements procurement, manufacturing, marketing
Aramco safely and successfully and sales. Synergies in multiple areas,
started-up the Jazan Refinery, and including procurement, stream
work is progressing well to reach the integration, feedstock optimization, and
400 mbpd design capacity. maintenance activities are being pursued.
In 2021, Aramco placed 11% (2020: 9%) In addition to SABIC, Aramco also
of its crude oil production, or 1.0 mmbpd, conducts petrochemical manufacturing
to its domestic wholly-owned refineries, through affiliates located in the Kingdom,
and 16% (2020: 14%), or 1.5 mmbpd, to its China, Japan, South Korea, Malaysia, the
domestic affiliated refineries. Moreover, United States, and the Netherlands, with
Aramco supplied 15% (2020: 15%), or other key industry players, including
1.4 mmbpd, of its crude oil production Dow (Sadara), Sumitomo (Petro Rabigh),
to its international wholly-owned and TotalEnergies (SATORP), PETRONAS
affiliated refineries. (PRefChem), and Sinopec (YASREF and
FREP). Through these affiliates, Aramco
Chemicals produces a wide range of commodity
Overview and differentiated petrochemicals.
Aramco’s chemicals business represents an
Performance and achievements
extension of the hydrocarbon value chain
Aramco continues to execute its strategy
and strategically complements its refining
toward becoming a top-tier integrated
operations. Aramco’s chemicals business,
chemicals company through growth,
including its interest in SABIC, operates in
integration, innovation, operational
over 50 countries and produces a range of
excellence, and development of its
chemicals. Aramco’s growing operations
product portfolio. Investments made in
in chemicals include participation in
integrated refining and chemicals and in
high-growth chemical markets with
stand-alone chemicals illustrate Aramco’s
demand from industries such as
commitment and ambition to be the
packaging, automotive and appliances.
world’s preeminent integrated energy
and chemicals company.
64 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 67]
Results and performance
Representing a significant step in SABIC Aramco and the Dow Chemical Company In keeping with Aramco’s strategy to
becoming the primary chemicals arm and (Dow), partners in the Sadara Chemical capture incremental value across the
an integral member of the Aramco group, Company (Sadara) joint venture, entered hydrocarbon chain, Aramco entered the
Aramco transferred the marketing and into agreements to provide additional Kingdom’s domestic lubricants market
sales responsibility for a number of feedstock by increasing the quantity of offering consumers a new line of lubricant
Aramco petrochemicals and polymers ethane and natural gasoline supplied by products under the ORIZON® brand.
products to SABIC. In addition, the offtake Aramco. These also include a gradual ORIZON® products are engineered to the
and resale responsibility for a number of increase in Aramco’s rights to market, highest standards and meet the latest
SABIC products is being transferred to through SABIC, the finished products lubricant specifications required by
Aramco Trading Company (ATC). These produced by Sadara over the next five original equipment manufacturers.
changes are intended to focus SABIC on years through an executive sales and
polymers and chemical products, while operations planning committee. Performance and achievements
ATC focuses on fuels, aromatics and During the year, along with the launch
MTBE, driving further operational Base oils and lubricants of ORIZON® products, Aramco opened
efficiencies, strengthening the brands of its first ORIZONCARE® service center to
Overview
both companies, and improving overall provide efficient automotive services.
Aramco’s three major producers and
competitiveness. Considerable synergies ORIZONCARE® centers will offer a
marketers of base oils, Luberef, Motiva
are also being captured, mainly in distinguished customer experience, and
and S-Oil, continue to deliver high-quality
procurement, supply chain, feedstock further expand the ORIZON® brand in
and technically differentiated products to
optimization, stream integration, the domestic lubricants market.
its global customer base. Aramco markets
operations, and maintenance.
its base oil products using the official
In 2021, Aramco sold 4.5 million tons
Aramco brands: aramcoDURA® (Group I),
(2020: 4.1 million tons) of base oils,
aramcoPRIMA® (Group II), and
maintaining its position as one of the
aramcoULTRA® (Group III).
leading marketers of base oils globally.
Entering into Saudi Arabia's domestic lubricants market
Saudi Arabia
In 2021 Aramco launched its ORIZON® product line in Saudi Arabia, offering high-quality
synthetic and semi-synthetic lubricants for gasoline and heavy-duty diesel engines, as well
as driveline products, greases and brake fluids.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 65
[Page 68]
Downstream continued
Retail operations Pipelines, distributions Performance and achievements
Overview and terminals In 2021, the operational resilience
of the Company’s infrastructure was
Aramco has developed a retail strategy Overview
demonstrated, with hydrocarbons
that focuses on establishing its own brand Aramco’s Kingdom-wide distribution
continuing to be delivered to customers
presence in the Kingdom as part of its long- network includes pipelines, bulk plants,
safely and on time, despite the internal
term goal to be a primary global retail air refueling sites and terminals that
and external challenges due to the
player. This includes offering consumers a deliver crude oil, NGL, natural gas, and
global pandemic, as well as the sabotage
new line of automotive services, coupled refined products. The pipelines and bulk
attacks on facilities. The well-established
with branded finished lubricant products, plants network, and the terminals on
emergency response systems and
as part of its commitment to diversify its the east and west coast, enable the
contingency plans helped to respond
downstream portfolio. transportation of hydrocarbons for export
effectively to any emergencies and
and for delivery to customers across the
Performance and achievements incidents.
Kingdom. Further, Aramco’s East-West
Aramco and TotalEnergies have launched
Pipeline links oil production facilities in the As part of its portfolio optimization
the first two service stations of their joint
Eastern Province with Yanbu’ on the west program to unlock value and maximize
retail network in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia’s
coast, providing flexibility to export from shareholder return, the Company
capital, and Saihat, in the country’s
the east and west coasts of the Kingdom. completed a SAR 46.5 billion ($12.4 billion)
Eastern Province. It follows the signing of a
lease and leaseback deal in June 2021.
joint venture agreement between Aramco Aramco’s MGS, an extensive network
The transaction involves the sale of a 49%
and TotalEnergies in 2019, with plans to of pipelines that connects its key gas
equity interest in Aramco Oil Pipelines
significantly upgrade a network of more production and processing sites with
Company (AOPC), an Aramco subsidiary,
than 200 service stations and expand the customers throughout the Kingdom, is
to a consortium of international investors
range of quality retail services available currently undergoing an expansion. The
including EIG Global Energy Partners
across the Kingdom. This network will system’s current capacity is 9.6 bscfd of
and Mubadala. The transaction does
comprise Aramco and TotalEnergies- natural gas supplying eastern, central
not impose any restrictions on Aramco’s
branded stations, providing motorists and western industrial complexes.
crude oil production volumes, and
with premium fuels and retail services.
Aramco continues to retain full legal
The MGS Expansion Phase II will increase
Aramco has continued to grow its fuel overall gas supply capacity to 12.5 bscfd, ownership and operational control of
retail presence through its affiliates, including expansion of the East-West the crude oil pipelines network.
supplying refined products to more than MGS to ultimately deliver 5.2 bscfd to the
In December 2021, in one of the world’s
17,000 service stations worldwide with central and western regions to support
largest energy infrastructure deals,
5,300 located in the United States, more future utility and industrial development.
the Company signed a SAR 58.1 billion
than 5,300 in China and South Korea, The project is expected to be completed
($15.5 billion) lease and leaseback deal
6,400 in Japan, and more than 200 service in the second half of 2022.
that involves its gas pipeline network, in
stations in Saudi Arabia.
which Aramco will hold a 51% majority
In addition, Aramco has a 15% equity
stake in Aramco Gas Pipelines Company
interest in the Arab Petroleum Pipeline
(AGPC) and sell a 49% stake to a
Company (Sumed Company), a joint
consortium of investors led by BlackRock
venture which operates the Sumed
and Hassana. The transaction closed in
pipeline. The pipeline runs from the
February 2022. Similar to the stabilized
Red Sea to the Mediterranean Sea
crude oil pipelines deal, Aramco will
through Egypt and provides an
continue to retain full legal ownership
alternative to the Suez Canal.
and operational control of its gas
pipelines network and the transaction
does not impose any restrictions on
Aramco’s gas production volumes.
These transactions represent significant
progress in Aramco’s asset optimization
program, unlock additional value from
its diverse asset base, and underscore
Aramco’s commitment to long-term
value creation.
66 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 69]
Results and performance
Supply and trading Performance and achievements
In 2021, Aramco traded an average of
Overview Strong track record of supply
5.7 mmbpd (2020: 4.7 mmbpd) of crude
Aramco manages crude oil sales
oil and refined petroleum products, reliability by delivering crude
operations, along with a large and
and 2.4 million tons of liquid chemical
growing portfolio of refining and
products (2020: 3.0 million tons). In 2021, and other products in a timely
chemicals facilities in Asia, Europe, and
Aramco’s total crude oil exports averaged
North America. As part of its strategy manner with 99.9%
6.3 mmbpd (2020: 6.7 mmbpd).
to unlock additional value, Aramco is
expanding its crude oil, refined products reliability in 2021.
The Company continued to demonstrate
and chemicals trading to significantly
its renowned operational flexibility in
grow total traded volumes over the
response to customer requirements,
next few years.
while managing events such as the 25-day
interruption following Winter Storm Uri at
Aramco’s worldwide trading activities
the Motiva Refinery in the United States.
adopted a globally integrated business
In addition, the Company continued its
model to capture maximum value through
strong track record of supply reliability
greater market access and coverage.
by delivering crude and other products
Currently, Aramco has five global trading
in a timely manner with 99.9% reliability
offices operating worldwide, with wider
in 2021 (2020: 99.9%) despite disruptions
access to customers and greater market
caused by COVID-19.
coverage.
As part of realizing value-adding synergies
With the recent increase in scale of its
in connection with the SABIC acquisition,
downstream operations, Aramco is well
the offtake and resale responsibility of
positioned to use its production and
a number of SABIC products is being
distribution network to optimize its supply
transferred to Aramco Trading Company
and trading capabilities. By optimizing the
(ATC). This change allows ATC to focus on
production, refining and distribution
fuels, aromatics and MTBE while driving
processes and integrating them with its
further operational efficiencies.
trading business, Aramco seeks to ensure
that customers receive reliable service and
consistent products. In addition, there is
the potential to optimize product flows on
a domestic and international basis across
regional and global supply chains to
maximize value.
These operations support Aramco’s
upstream and downstream activities by
enabling it to optimize crude oil sales and
product placement through its significant
infrastructure network of pipelines and
terminals, and access to shipping and
logistics resources. Aramco also maintains
flexibility to respond to fluctuations in
demand through its five crude grades
and MSC.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 67
[Page 70]
Downstream continued
Power The Company also remains committed In August 2021, Tanajib Cogeneration
to the global energy transition and views Power Company (TCPC) was established
Overview
renewable energy as a complement to its as a limited liability company for the
As at December 31, 2021, Aramco’s
own energy products, supported by vast purposes of electricity generation,
power operations comprised 17 captive
solar and wind resources in-Kingdom. transmission and distribution, water
power plants (2020: 17) and associated
desalination, transportation, and
transmission and distribution assets
Performance and achievements distribution. TCPC is 40% owned by SAPCO
located across the Kingdom. These
In 2021, Aramco generated 5.2 GW (2020: and 60% owned by Tanajib Cogeneration
assets are primarily designed to provide
5.4 GW) of power, of which 3.3 GW (2020: Holding Company Ltd. (a consortium
electricity and steam to Aramco’s oil and
3.3 GW) were used to meet internal between Marubeni Corporation and
gas production facilities, gas processing
demand, and 1.3 GW (2020: 1.6 GW) of Abu Dhabi National Energy Company PJSC
plants and wholly-owned refineries in
spill power was transferred to the national (TAQA)). TCPC is the lead developer under
a safe, reliable, efficient and profitable
grid. In 2021, the Fadhili Power Plant joint a 20-year Build Own Operate and Transfer
manner. Some of these power assets are
venture supplied 0.6 GW (2020: 0.5 GW) (BOOT) arrangement where the Company
wholly-owned while others are owned
to SEC. will be the sole offtaker of the electricity,
by joint ventures in which Aramco has
steam, and water. In October 2021, project
an ownership interest. Aramco also
Aramco, via its wholly-owned subsidiary, financing was closed with external lenders,
enters into offtake arrangements with
SAPCO, entered into a shareholders' as part of which the Company provided
independent power producers.
agreement with PIF and ACWA Power equity funding-related guarantees.
to invest in the Sudair Solar PV Plant,
In addition, Aramco currently owns a 6.9%
holding a 30% interest in the project. In September 2021, Aramco entered into
stake in the Saudi Electricity Company
The project is one of the largest solar a financing arrangement of SAR 44.1
(SEC), the Kingdom’s national electricity
plants in the region with a capacity billion ($11.8 billion) relating to the Jazan
utility company, and an effective 42.2%
of 1.5 GW. Aramco’s investment in the Integrated Gasification Combined-Cycle
(2020: 42.2%) stake in Marafiq, a domestic
project marks its first participation in PIF’s (IGCC) Power Plant, an Air Separation
utility company that serves the industrial
renewable energy program, reflecting Unit, and certain ancillary assets. The
areas of Jubail and Yanbu’.
Aramco’s efforts to advance sustainable transaction resulted in the creation of
energy solutions within Saudi Arabia. Jazan Integrated Gasification and Power
The first phase of the project is expected Company (JIGPC), an Aramco joint venture
to begin producing electricity during the consisting of Saudi Aramco Power
second half of 2022. Company, Air Products, ACWA Power
and Air Products Qudra. JIGPC will operate
the facility under a 25-year contract for
a predetermined monthly fee. Aramco
will supply feedstock to JIGPC, and JIGPC
Advancing sustainable energy solutions will produce power, steam, hydrogen and
other utilities for Aramco. JIGPC aims to
Saudi Arabia’s largest solar PV plant enhance the overall value of the Jazan
Refinery and the IGCC Power Plant, and
will aid in transforming the Jazan Province
and positioning it for additional foreign
Partners and investment and private sector involvement.
share percentage
Aramco
30
%
Sudair
PIF
Solar PV 1.5 35
GW %
Generating
Plant ACWA Power
capacity
35
%
68 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 71]
Results and performance
Generating value
Jazan Economic City, Saudi Arabia
Aramco entered into a financing arrangement relating to the Integrated Gasification
Combined-Cycle Power Plant, an Air Separation Unit, and certain ancillary assets at
the Jazan Refinery Complex.
Outlook for 2022 through investments in Poland’s refining,
wholesale, and jet fuel marketing
Aramco’s Downstream segment will
segments. Completion of the transaction
continue to integrate across the value chain
is subject to regulatory approvals.
with investments throughout its operations
with the aim of creating additional value
To continue creating value, the
while diversifying the portfolio and
Downstream segment aims to increase
mitigating the volatility of earnings. As
refining capacity, grow liquids-to-chemicals
such, in January 2022 Aramco signed
production, expand trading activities, and
agreements with Polish refiner and fuel
leverage the downstream transformation
retailer PKN Orlen, which will expand
program to increase efficiency.
Aramco’s European downstream presence
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 69
[Page 72]
Corporate
Unlocking value
Overview To unlock further value and maximize These transactions demonstrate investor
Aramco’s corporate activities primarily shareholder returns, in December 2021 confidence in Aramco’s long-term outlook,
support its Upstream and Downstream the Company signed a SAR 58.1 billion while reinforcing Aramco’s role as a
segments, as well as the overall business. ($15.5 billion) energy infrastructure catalyst for attracting significant foreign
The corporate activities include technical deal with a consortium of investors led institutional investors into the Kingdom.
services that are essential to the success of by BlackRock Real Assets and Hassana
Aramco’s core business, as well as human Investment Company to sell a 49% Aramco’s corporate activities include a
resources, finance, legal, corporate affairs interest in a newly formed subsidiary, focus on the development of its workforce
and IT. Aramco Gas Pipelines Company (AGPC). as well as attracting new talent. In 2021,
The transaction closed in February 2022. this was demonstrated by the launch of
Aramco’s integrated corporate As part of the transaction, AGPC leased the Altamayyuz Finance and Accounting
development organization, established usage rights in Aramco’s gas pipelines Excellence Academy, a collaboration
in 2020, is mandated to maximize value network and leased them back to Aramco between Aramco and leading accountancy
creation by efficiently executing portfolio for a 20-year period. In return, AGPC will firms and investment banks. The Academy
optimization and growth opportunities in receive a tariff payable by Aramco for establishes a finance and accounting center
line with corporate strategies. This would specified gas products that flow through of excellence in the Kingdom, creating a
enable the Company to unlock the value the pipelines network. Similar to the skilled talent pool for the Company to
of its assets and redeploy it toward stabilized crude oil pipelines deal, Aramco draw from and will support the growth
opportunities with growth prospects will continue to retain full legal ownership of financial services in the region.
and attractive returns. and operational control of its gas
pipelines network and the transaction
Performance and achievements
does not impose any restrictions on
As part of its portfolio optimization efforts,
Aramco’s gas production volumes.
in June 2021 the Company successfully
completed a SAR 46.5 billion ($12.4 billion) The improving sentiment in the energy
The improving sentiment in
energy infrastructure deal with a market offered Aramco an opportunity to
consortium of international investors further optimize its capital structure and the energy market offered
including EIG Global Energy Partners and manage liquidity. Aramco successfully
Mubadala to sell a 49% interest in Aramco raised SAR 22.5 billion ($6.0 billion) Aramco an opportunity to
Oil Pipelines Company (AOPC), an Aramco through the issuance of its inaugural
further optimize its capital
subsidiary. As part of the transaction, international U.S. dollar-denominated
AOPC leased usage rights in Aramco’s Shari’a compliant securities under the structure and manage liquidity.
stabilized crude oil pipelines network and newly established international sukuk
leased them back to Aramco for a 25-year program. The offering led to a healthy
period. In return, AOPC will receive tariff subscription from a broad group of global
payments for the crude oil that flows investors, demonstrating Aramco’s unique
through the pipelines network. The value proposition, further diversifying
transaction did not impose any restrictions its funding sources, and expanding its
on Aramco’s crude oil production volumes, investor base. The securities are listed on
and Aramco continues to retain full legal the London Stock Exchange’s main market.
ownership and operational control of the
crude oil pipelines network.
70 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 73]
Results and performance
Corporate financial results
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
All amounts in millions unless otherwise stated 2021 2020 2021 2020 % change
Earnings (losses) before interest, income taxes and zakat (13,533) (17,041) (3,609) (4,544) (20.6)%
Capital expenditures – cash basis 2,163 1,282 577 342 68.7%
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
Earnings (losses) before interest, income Corporate capital expenditures increased
taxes and zakat (EBIT) is principally during the year due to higher community
driven by the cost of the corporate and various industrial support projects.
organization, the affiliates recognized
under the corporate segment, and the
corporate outreach and citizenship
activities. The decrease in losses in
2021 was mainly attributable to lower
employee-related costs during the year.
Keeping Aramco moving
Saudi Arabia
Aramco efficiently moves its people and assets to where they are needed, and the Company’s
intelligent mobility center, inaugurated in 2021, maximizes the optimal use of the Company’s
transportation assets.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 71
[TABLE DATA]
(13,533)
2,163
(3,609) | (4,544)
342 | (20.6)%
577 |  | 68.7%
[Page 76]
Aramco's approach to sustainability
Committed to responsible operations
Aramco's approach At the center of the Company’s business
lies a multi-generational commitment
At the center of the Company’s The financial resilience and long-term
to be a responsible custodian of Saudi
sustainability of the business depends on
business lies a multi- Arabia’s enormous energy resources.
Aramco’s ability to leverage its competitive
In meeting this responsibility, the
position in both its Upstream and
generational commitment to Company has delivered significant
Downstream businesses, while balancing
societal and economic benefits to
be a responsible custodian of society’s demands for progress and
the Kingdom and the communities,
economic growth with the need to reduce
Saudi Arabia’s enormous emissions and waste, and become a more economies, and countries that rely on the
vital and reliable energy Aramco supplies.
circular economy. The Company’s strategy
energy resources.
positions Aramco to successfully navigate
and benefit from the global energy and
materials transition.
Intelligent solutions
Dhahran, Saudi Arabia
Aramco, with a multi-generational commitment to be a responsible custodian of Saudi Arabia's
energy resources, uses sophisticated predictive technology in its Upstream Innovation Center to
further minimize carbon emissions.
74 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 77]
Environmental, social
and governance
Sustainability governance At a management level, the Company’s Four areas of focus
The Board of Directors oversees Sustainability Steering Committee (SSC)
Materiality assessments and external
sustainability at the Company through aligns all sustainability-related activities
benchmarking have identified four
the Risk and HSE Committee. The Risk under the guidance and oversight of a
sustainability areas of focus:
and HSE Committee receives periodic single body. The SSC is comprised of
updates from management regarding Aramco vice presidents representing
the Company’s sustainability framework business lines and administrative areas, Climate change and the
and performance across a range of Key and is led by the Senior Vice President
energy transition;
Performance Indicators (KPIs) and goals, of Technical Services.
and provides guidance with respect to
strategy, commitments, and important Please see the Governance section of this Minimizing environmental
areas of focus. The Risk and HSE report for more details.
impacts;
Committee reports its findings to
the Board.
Accelerating human
potential; and
Growing societal value.
The Company takes both a strategic
and operational approach as it seeks to
address these important issues, and has
identified KPIs for each focus area. The
Company will expand on its performance
and plans in these areas in its 2021
Sustainability Report.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 75
[Page 78]
Climate change and the energy transition
Aramco has a unique role to play in helping Aramco is a founding member of the Aramco is committed to reducing flaring
the world navigate towards a low-carbon Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI) across its business, with investment in flare
future. Oil and gas will be part of the and collaborates with industry peers gas recovery systems and programs to
energy mix for decades to come; however, and companies along the value chain to improve asset integrity, energy efficiency,
rapidly reducing emissions associated with deliver tangible climate change solutions. leak detection, and repairs. As a signatory
these products is a strategic and urgent In September 2021, Aramco and other to the World Bank’s “Zero Routine Flaring
necessity if global climate goals are to be OGCI members agreed to accelerate by 2030” initiative, Aramco shares best
met. Aramco supports the objectives set their collective actions and invest in new practices and knowledge with peer
by the Paris Agreement, which aims to technologies to help decarbonize society companies to ensure its work has a
strengthen the global response to the and reach a circular carbon economy broader, positive impact. And to maintain
threat of climate change. Aramco is able faster. In addition, OGCI members its low upstream carbon intensity, Aramco
to leverage its strengths, which includes committed to reduce the average carbon is developing a carbon capture and storage
access to the natural resources to meet the intensity of aggregate upstream operated hub to permanently sequester captured
energy needs of society, by maximizing assets to 17.0 kilograms of carbon dioxide CO emissions underground.
2
the value of the energy and materials it equivalent per barrel of oil equivalent by
produces while minimizing the negative 2025, and reduce the average methane In 2021, Scope 1 emissions and
impact of greenhouse gases. intensity of aggregate upstream oil and gas upstream carbon intensity increased
operations to well below 0.2% by 2025. as gas production, which has a higher
The Company’s many decades of careful carbon intensity than crude production,
long-term reservoir management and GHG emissions assumed a larger share of the Company’s
meaningful technology investments production mix. Additionally, emissions
Aramco’s GHG emissions management
underpin its low-cost, efficient operations from the Fadhili Gas Plant are included
program monitors Scope 1 and Scope 2
that have helped it maximize value from in the 2021 GHG emissions inventory.
emissions consistent with the Greenhouse
the Kingdom’s resources. Supporting this
Gas Protocol guidelines1. An important
is Aramco’s ambition to achieve net-zero
metric for Aramco is the carbon intensity
20213 20204
Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas
from upstream operations, which is Scope 1 emissions2
e o m pe is r s a i t o e n d s a b s y s e 2 t 0 s, 5 a 0 n a d c r e o li s m s i i t n s a w te h r o o l u ly t - in ow e ned among the lowest in the industry and is (million metric tons of CO 2 e) 55.0 50.2
achieved through efficient operations, Scope 2 emissions2
f o l f a r th in e g C b o y m 2 p 0 a 3 n 0 y . ’ T s h fo is c i u s s a o n n i m lo p n o g r - t t a e n rm t p art best-in-class management of the (million metric tons of CO 2 e) 17.1 18.1
Company’s prolific reservoirs, sound
value creation, and complements the
engineering, and the robust deployment
Kingdom’s aim to reach net-zero emissions 2021 2020
of technologies.
by 2060, announced as part of the Saudi Upstream carbon intensity5
Green Initiative. (kg of COe/boe) 11.2 10.6
2
In 2021, Aramco commenced development
2021 2020
of the Jafurah unconventional gas field,
representing a milestone in the Company’s Flaring intensity2
efforts to expand its integrated gas (scf per boe) 5.51 5.97
portfolio and support Saudi Arabia’s goal
to produce half its electricity from gas and
half from renewables. Gas produced from
Jafurah will supply cleaner energy to the
domestic energy sector and provide
feedstock for blue hydrogen and ammonia
production. Aramco also invested in the
Sudair Solar PV project, the first project
under the PIF’s renewable energy program
and capable of producing 1.5 GW of
renewable energy once fully operational.
1. The Company’s GHG emissions reporting is based on the World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) GHG protocol guidelines.
The Company reports emissions using the operational control basis for measurement.
2. The Company’s GHG emissions inventory includes emissions from wholly-owned in-Kingdom operated assets, SASREF, Motiva, and ARLANXEO.
3. Jazan Refinery is excluded from 2021 GHG emissions inventory. 2021 absolute GHG emissions figures are estimates and subject to change upon completion of data validation
and third-party verification in the second quarter of 2022.
4. Fadhili Gas Plant and Jazan Refinery are excluded from 2020 GHG emissions inventory.
5. 2021 intensity value is subject to change upon completion of data validation and third-party verification in the second quarter of 2022.
76 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
55.0
17.1
[Page 80]
Minimizing environmental impacts
Aramco aspires to limit its environmental In 2021, the Company established a
footprint, conserve the natural resources new biodiversity policy that commits
In 2021, the Company
it uses, and build a legacy of improving the Company to a net positive impact
established a new biodiversity natural habitats and protecting shared on biodiversity across its operations.
resources. This means limiting freshwater
policy that commits the use in our operations and protecting During the year, two specific milestones
sensitive ecological areas to support were achieved. The Company opened the
Company to a net positive
Aramco’s commitment to preserving Mangrove Eco-Park, a 63 km2 mangrove
impact on biodiversity across the Kingdom’s environment and the forest that is the first of its kind in the
areas where it operates. Kingdom dedicated to preserving these
its operations. sensitive habitats, and the culmination of
The Company’s comprehensive water a project spanning nearly a decade.
conservation efforts include maximizing The park will provide a sanctuary for
wastewater reuse, minimizing water marine life and over 100 species of birds,
losses, and supplementing freshwater and will capture and absorb atmospheric
with alternative sources like seawater. carbon within the surrounding sediment.
Aramco operates the Qurayyah Seawater The second milestone is the successful
Injection Plant, one of the world’s largest completion of the Company’s one million
seawater desalination facilities, to support trees initiative and the commencement of
production operations, and in 2021 the a second phase to plant an additional
Company commissioned a solar thermal million trees, as well as the planting
system at the facility covering 2,000 m2 of eight million mangroves. Through
to provide clean energy and reduce these actions, Aramco aims to mitigate
fuel consumption. During the year, desertification, enhance biodiversity
the Company also completed work and capture atmospheric carbon.
on a new industrial water system at
the Khurais Increment Project to use
seawater for plant processes instead
of freshwater. Aramco’s commitment
to water efficiency reduces pressure on
natural water resources and helps ensure
its availability for future generations.
The slight increase in freshwater
consumption in 2021 was mainly due to
inclusion of water use by well completion The Company opened a
activities in upstream operations.
63 2
2021 2020 km
Freshwater consumption1 Mangrove Eco-Park.
(million cubic meters) 33.78 32.85
1. Applies to Saudi Arabian Oil Company (the Company).
78 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 82]
Accelerating human potential
Aramco prioritizes the safety of its Expanded
employees, their dependents, and its Scope
contractors. They are the Company’s 20211 20212 20202
greatest resource, and their health Tier 1 process safety events 11 8 9
and well-being are critical to its success. TRC frequency3,4 0.054 0.046 0.044
By supporting and empowering its
LTI rate3,4 0.017 0.013 0.011
workforce, regardless of gender, ethnicity,
Number of fatalities3 1 1 1
or disability, Aramco seeks to grow and
harness the potential of its people for
their benefit and that of the Company
and the communities where it operates.
Since then, the program’s reach has This program is an important recruitment
expanded, with seven permanent mechanism to attract female employees,
Safety is a core corporate value that
COVID-19 vaccination centers established particularly in the science, technology,
drives Aramco to proactively identify and
within Aramco facilities in addition to nine engineering, and mathematics (STEM) fields.
mitigate hazards to ensure safe operations
remote satellite centers within Aramco
and minimize business interruptions.
operational areas. As a result, 100% of The Company also expanded its outreach
Operating in demanding environments
the workforce have completed dose one to in-Kingdom universities to promote
while dealing with hydrocarbons brings
and two, and almost all employees have STEM offerings to women, and hosts
inherent risk, which is why the safety of
completed dose three of the vaccine Women of Saudi Aramco panel sessions
employees, contractors, communities,
either through the Johns Hopkins Aramco to highlight the diversity among female
and assets is Aramco’s top priority.
Healthcare Company or through the employees and their contributions to the
Ministry of Health vaccination centers. success of Aramco.
The Company has a target of zero fatalities,
but tragically, one contractor fatality
At the direction of the Board, the scope of During the year, the Company launched
occurred in 2021 at a construction site.
the 2021 safety performance metrics has the D&I HR Working Committee and
This incident was thoroughly investigated,
been expanded to include the Company the D&I Project Management Office.
with root causes identified and action
and its operationally controlled entities, Together, these groups take a proactive
plans developed to avoid reoccurrence.
where 2020 data included in-Kingdom approach to recruit females and people
wholly-owned and operated assets. with disabilities to the workforce, and
To protect its workforce, the Company
For comparison purposes, 2021 data for then develop, engage, and retain them as
combines an enterprise-wide safety
in-Kingdom wholly-owned and operated Aramco employees. In 2021, the Company
focus with robust policies and standards
assets has also been stated. saw notable shifts in hiring, with women
under the umbrella of the Health,
comprising 31% of all direct hires in the
Safety, Security and Environment
People and communities year, raising the percentage of females
(HSSE) Committee. The Company also
in the workforce to 5.6%. As well, more
deploys its subject matter experts to The Company is committed to growing
people with disabilities were hired than
independently assess the compliance and diversity and inclusion (D&I) in the
in the past three years combined.
implementation of its Safety Management workforce. A diverse workforce
System, and develop action plans to encourages a global perspective and
further improve safety performance. fosters innovation, collaboration, and 2021 2020
respect. Attracting and cultivating the Company employees2 68,493 66,800
A commitment to safety and safe best talent is a priority, and Aramco Female employees2
operations is also a requirement for regards individual differences as (%) 5.6 5.1
Aramco’s contractors. Since the inception opportunities for creativity and growth.
of the Construction Safety Index (CSI) in
Aramco also works with the Government
2019, the Company completed over 11,000 In 2021, over 16,000 participants attended
and the business community to develop
risk-based inspections and issued more Aramco D&I programs and events, which
the skills of the local workforce. During
than 3,700 CSI reports, contributing to raise awareness and reinforce the
the year, the Altamayyuz Finance and
the enhancement of contractor safety. importance of D&I in the workplace. A key
Accounting Excellence Academy was
component of the Company’s D&I strategy
As part of its ongoing response to is empowering women and promoting inaugurated, offering programs to
COVID-19, and in collaboration with the female participation in the workforce. This new graduates seeking professional
Ministry of Health, the Company swiftly starts with supporting women as they enter certifications and helping to build a thriving
implemented a vaccination program university, and in 2021 females accounted in-Kingdom financial sector. Two cohorts of
to its employees, dependents, retirees, for approximately 48% of active overall nearly 90 candidates entered the Academy
and trainees. enrollment in the Company-sponsored in 2021.
College Preparatory Program.
1. The Company and its operationally controlled entities.
2. Applies to Saudi Arabian Oil Company (the Company).
3. Total workforce (employees and contractors).
4. Per 200,000 work hours.
80 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
11
0.054
0.017
1
68,493
5.6
[Page 84]
Growing societal value
Developing local supply chains and inventories, strengthening Aramco’s In 2021, 59% of the Company’s spending
ability to meet commitments to customers was directed to domestic suppliers,
Aramco supports the economic growth
around the world. representing billions of dollars in economic
and diversification of Saudi Arabia and is
activity that remained in-Kingdom in
committed to creating direct and indirect
In support of these efforts, and aligned support of the local economy.
employment opportunities for Saudi Arabian
with iktva and the Kingdom’s Shareek
nationals. In alignment with the Kingdom’s
program, Aramco launched Namaat,
Shareek corporate investment initiative, the 2021 2020
a major expansion of the Company’s
Company has established programs intended iktva1
Industrial Investment Program, to forge
to drive a world-class in-Kingdom energy (%) 59.0 57.5
world-class partnerships in sustainability,
and industrial ecosystem.
technology, industrials, and advanced
materials. With Namaat, Aramco seeks
The Company is building a world-class
to drive the continued growth and
local supply chain, through the Company’s
development of a resilient and sustainable
In-Kingdom Total Value-Add (iktva)
private sector in the Kingdom.
program, to serve the needs of the Company
Aramco supports the
and its partners, and facilitate development
Aramco also supports the growth of
of a diverse, sustainable, and globally
sustainable traditional professions in- economic growth and
competitive in-Kingdom energy sector.
Kingdom. During the year, Aramco
Aramco operates responsibly through diversification of Saudi Arabia
inaugurated Roseyar, a skin care products
sustainable procurement and supports its
value chain in adopting the same values factory in al-Taif. The initiative aims to help and is committed to creating
small industries and employ Saudi women,
and standards across in-Kingdom and
and Aramco assisted with the retrofitting direct and indirect
international operations. Investment in the
of an existing building and provided
Kingdom’s domestic oil and gas ecosystem employment opportunities
workforce training, maintenance and
enhances the reliability of the Company’s
operational support for the facility, which
supply chain and optimizes operational costs for Saudi Arabian nationals.
can produce up to 100,000 units of skin
care products annually.
Promoting advanced material deployment
Ras al-Khair, Saudi Arabia
The Company deployed non-metallic solutions in the construction of the King Salman
International Complex for Maritime Industries and Services, which will be one of the
Middle East’s largest maritime industrial yards.
1. Applies to Saudi Arabian Oil Company (the Company).
82 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 88]
Risk management
Managing risk exposures
Risk objectives The primary role of the Risk and Aramco’s enterprise risk management
HSE Committee is to monitor overall (ERM) framework follows the Three Lines
Aramco operates in an industry
management of risk and activities relating Model. The operating businesses and
characterized by price volatility,
to health, safety and the environment and support organizations form the first
hazardous operations, and uncertain
to assist the Board of Directors with: line, as risk owners, and have primary
project outcomes. Taking informed risks
responsibility for identifying and managing
is an inherent and necessary part of
(i) leadership, direction, and oversight their risks. The second line comprises
doing business. Aramco manages its
with respect to the Company’s dedicated risk management functions,
strategic, operational, compliance and
risk appetite, risk tolerance, risk responsible for monitoring and reporting
financial risks by continuously assessing
framework, and risk strategy; on risks, and providing guidance to risk
them and undertaking appropriate
owners. Risk management functions
responses. Business decisions are made (ii) governance and management of
include Loss Prevention, Environmental
after due consideration of rewards and strategic, operational, sustainability,
Protection, Information Security, Corporate
associated risks. and environmental, social and
Emergency Management and Continuity,
governance (ESG) related risks; and
Corporate Compliance, and Financial Risk
Risk management framework
(iii) assisting the Board and the Audit Management organizations, as well as the
The Board of Directors provides Committee, to foster a culture within Corporate Enterprise Risk Management
risk oversight as a component of its the Company that emphasizes and group. Internal Audit, as the third line,
strategic leadership. The Risk and HSE demonstrates the benefits of risk provides management and the Audit
Committee of the Board oversees the risk management. The Audit Committee Committee with independent assurance
management framework and monitors focuses on financial risks, including on the effectiveness of internal control
specific top corporate risks. financial reporting and treasury risks, systems. Aramco’s Global ERM Policy
as well as on internal and external requires subsidiaries and operationally
compliance. controlled affiliates to manage risks in
a structured manner, overseen by their
Boards of Directors. Aramco also monitors
affiliates’ risks and encourages affiliates to
apply ERM principles and practices to their
management of risks.
Enterprise risk management framework
Board
Risk and Audit
HSE Committee Committee
Executive team
Management Committee
The framework is based on the Three Lines Model
First line: Second line: Third line:
Business assets and facilities Risk and control functions Internal audit
Monitor and report risk, Provide independent assurance on the
Identify and manage risk
and provide guidance effectiveness of internal control systems
86 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
Board
Risk and Audit
HSE Committee Committee
Executive team
Management Committee
First line:
Business assets and facilities
Identify and manage risk
Second line:
Risk and control functions
Monitor and report risk,
and provide guidance
Third line:
Internal audit
Provide independent assurance on the
effectiveness of internal control systems
[Page 89]
Risk
Principal risk categories
1 2
Risks related to macroeconomic Risks related to Aramco,
environment and external factors its operations and industry
Read more Read more
on page 88 on page 91
3 4
Legal and regulatory risks Risks related to the Kingdom
Read more Read more
on page 95 on page 99
Management-level oversight of the This includes the escalation, as Risk factors
ERM framework is provided by the appropriate, of risk ownership through
The following risks, which are identified
Management Committee, chaired by Aramco’s organizational levels, resulting
as material, do not necessarily comprise
the President and CEO. He also chairs the in a hierarchy of risks from individual
all the risks affecting Aramco. There may
HSSE Committee, which oversees health, departmental risks to corporate risks.
be additional risks that Aramco is currently
safety, security, and environmental risk Annually, the Management Committee
not aware of, or that Aramco currently
management; the Strategy Council, which reviews the composition of the top risks,
believes are immaterial, which may in the
reviews matters of strategic risk; and the taking into consideration risks reported
future become material or affect Aramco’s
Conflicts of Interest and Business Ethics from the businesses and a top-down
business, financial position and results of
Committee. Various other management- scan for new and emerging risks. The
operations, or the market price of the
level committees oversee specific Management Committee is updated
shares. As a result of these and other
risk-related topics, such as the quarterly on individual risks, and every
risks, the forward-looking events and
Sustainability Steering Committee year several risks are presented in detail
circumstances discussed in this Annual
and the Information Security Risk to the Management Committee and the
Report might not occur in the way Aramco
Management Steering Committee. Board’s Risk and HSE Committee.
expects, or at all. All forward-looking
statements in this Annual Report should be
Business risk assessment Decision-making
considered in light of these explanations.
The process by which individual To reduce planning uncertainty and
organizations identify, assess, mitigate, help manage the variability of outcomes, The risks described in this section are
monitor and report risks to achieve Aramco has embedded risk assessment not presented in order of priority based
business objectives is integrated into into its strategic and investment planning. on their importance or expected effect
Aramco’s annual planning cycle through Strategic scenarios are stress-tested, and on Aramco.
a system based on ISO 31000 principles the investment portfolio is optimized
and guidelines. using stochastic risk modeling. Individual
projects and investments pass through a
gated decision process that includes risk
assessments and value assurance reviews.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 87
[TABLE DATA]
|
|
[Page 90]
Risk factors
Understanding risks
Risks related to macroeconomic environment and external factors
Aramco’s results of operations and cash flow are significantly impacted by international crude oil supply
and demand, and the price at which it sells crude oil.
Sales of crude oil are the largest • Capital investments of oil and gas International crude oil prices have
component of Aramco’s consolidated companies relating to the exploration, fluctuated significantly in the past and
revenue and other income related to development and production of crude may remain volatile. Between January
sales, accounting for 49.1% and 47.0% oil reserves; 2016 and December 2021, Brent prices
for the years ended December 31, 2020, generally fluctuated between $40.0 and
• The impact of climate change on the
and 2021, respectively. Accordingly, $70.0 per barrel. However, Brent prices
demand for, and price of, hydrocarbons
Aramco’s operations and cash flow fell below $20.0 per barrel in mid-March
(see risk — Climate change concerns
results are significantly impacted by 2020 in response to the impact of the
and impacts could reduce global
the price at which it sells crude oil. COVID-19 pandemic on worldwide
demand for hydrocarbons and
demand for oil and economic activity,
hydrocarbon-based products and
International crude oil supply and as well as other supply and demand
could cause Aramco to incur costs
demand and the sales price for crude factors, and did not recover to above
or invest additional capital);
oil are affected by many factors that $60.0 per barrel until February 2021.
are beyond Aramco’s control, including: • Changes to environmental or other Fluctuations in the price at which Aramco
regulations or laws applicable to crude is able to sell crude oil have previously,
• Markets’ expectations with respect oil and related products or the energy and could in the future, cause Aramco’s
to future supply of petroleum and industry (see risk — Aramco’s results of operations and cash flow to vary
petroleum products, demand and operations are subject to environmental significantly. In addition, decreases in the
price changes; protection, health and safety laws and price at which Aramco is able to sell its
• Global economic and political conditions regulations, and increased concerns crude oil could have a material adverse
and geopolitical events, including any regarding the safe use of chemicals and effect on Aramco’s results of operations
that impact international trade plastics and their potential impact on and cash flow.
(including trade routes); the environment have resulted in more
restrictive regulations and could lead
• Decisions regarding production levels to new regulations);
by the Kingdom or other producing
states (the Kingdom is a member • Prices of alternative energies, including
country of OPEC) (see Section 3: Results renewable energy;
and performance); • The electrification of transportation,
• The impact of natural disasters and technological developments in the cost
public health pandemics or epidemics or endurance of fuel cells for electric
(such as COVID-19) on supply and vehicles, and changes in transportation-
demand for crude oil, general economic mode preferences, including ride-sharing;
conditions, and the ability to deliver • Weather conditions affecting supply
crude oil; and demand;
• The development of new crude oil • Fluctuations in the value of the U.S.
exploration, production and transportation dollar, the currency in which crude oil
methods or technological advancements is priced globally; and
in existing methods, including hydraulic
fracturing or “fracking”; • Crude oil trading activities.
88 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
|
|
[Page 91]
Risk
The COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on business and economic conditions has had, and is expected to continue to have, negative
effects on Aramco’s business, financial position, cash flow, results of operations, and price of its securities.
The COVID-19 pandemic and measures In addition to its impact on economic Aramco is not able to predict how long the
taken to combat it continue to have a activity, COVID-19 has had, and could COVID-19 pandemic will persist, how long
widespread impact on business and continue to have, a direct impact on the measures that have been introduced
economic conditions, including on the Aramco’s operations. In the Kingdom, to respond to it will be in place, or if
demand for crude oil, natural gas, refined public health authorities have taken additional restrictive measures may be
products, and petrochemicals. Public various measures to combat the spread reintroduced. Aramco also cannot predict
health authorities and governments at of COVID-19. For example, in March 2020 how long the effects of COVID-19 and the
local, national, and international levels a temporary nationwide curfew was efforts to contain it will continue to impact
have, at various times, announced various introduced, which required Aramco to its business after the pandemic is under
measures to respond to the pandemic, adjust working hours for some personnel. control or if additional, more restrictive
including restrictions on travel, voluntary In addition, the health of some of measures to combat the pandemic will be
or mandatory quarantines, workforce Aramco’s employees has been impacted implemented. These impacts could result
reductions of personnel who are deemed and some of its personnel have been in a worsening of the effects of the
to be nonessential, and the full closure quarantined. If public health authorities pandemic on Aramco’s business, cash
of business activities deemed to be determine that persons suspected of flows, results of operations, and price of its
nonessential. These measures have severely or confirmed to have COVID-19, have securities. The extent to which COVID-19
impacted economic activity and led to spent time at any of Aramco’s facilities, could impact Aramco’s business depends
lower demand for crude oil, natural gas, Aramco may be required to pause certain on future developments that are highly
refined products, and petrochemicals. operations or close certain facilities uncertain and are outside of Aramco’s
Moreover, the COVID-19 pandemic has for a considerable time. If a significant control, including new information
resulted in volatility in global capital percentage of Aramco’s workforce is which may quickly emerge concerning
markets and investor sentiment, which may unable to work, or if Aramco is required the severity of the virus, the scope of the
affect the availability, amount, and type of to close facilities because of illness or pandemic, and actions to contain the virus
financing available to Aramco in the future. government restrictions in connection or treat its impact and the efficacy of such
with the COVID-19 pandemic, Aramco’s actions, among others.
operations may be negatively impacted.
Aramco operates in a highly competitive environment. Competitive pressure could have a material adverse impact on the price
at which it sells crude oil and other products.
The sale of crude oil outside the Kingdom In addition, outside the Kingdom, if the operating efficiencies and
is very competitive. Aramco’s primary Aramco’s refineries in its Downstream production costs of Aramco’s refineries
competitors for the sale of crude oil segment are subject to competition in the are not sufficiently competitive in the
outside the Kingdom include NOCs and geographies to which they sell refined geographies they serve, Aramco’s
IOCs, many of which have substantial products or petrochemicals. Competitors business, financial position, and results
crude oil reserves and financial resources. include, but are not limited to, refineries of operations could be materially and
The primary factors affecting competition located in, or in close proximity to, the adversely impacted.
are the price, quantity, and quality of relevant geographies, and in the case of
crude oil produced. Increased competitive refineries that are net importers, from
pressures could have a material adverse other international producers. Operating
impact on prices at which Aramco can efficiencies and production costs are key
sell crude oil and its regional and global factors affecting competition for refined
market share. products and chemicals. Accordingly,
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 89
[Page 92]
Risk factors continued
Climate change concerns and impacts could reduce global demand for hydrocarbons and hydrocarbon-based products and could
cause Aramco to incur costs or invest additional capital.
Climate change concerns manifested future, areas in which Aramco operates carbon-cutting commitments, and
in government policies, laws and that are not currently subject to GHG phase down the use of coal. A reduction
regulations, international agreements regulation may become regulated and in demand for hydrocarbons and
and treaties, lawsuits against energy existing GHG regulations may become hydrocarbon-based products could have
companies, investor pressure, public more stringent. Existing and future climate a material adverse effect on Aramco’s
sentiment, fossil fuel divestment change concerns and impacts could also business, financial position, and results
campaigns, and other actions may reduce shift demand to other fuels and reduce of operations.
global demand for hydrocarbons, and demand for hydrocarbons and
may propel a shift toward lower carbon hydrocarbon-based products. Furthermore, many companies have
intensity fossil fuels such as gas or announced net-zero commitments that
alternative energy sources. In particular, In addition, international agreements contemplate significant reductions and
increasing pressure on governments, to limit or reduce GHG emissions offsets of GHG emissions over a specified
businesses, organizations and individuals are currently in various stages of period of time. In line with the Kingdom’s
to reduce GHG emissions has led to a implementation. For example, the announced commitments and the Saudi
variety of actions that aim to reduce the Paris Agreement became effective in Green Initiative (SGI) Forum, Aramco
use of fossil fuels. This includes, among November 2016, and many countries that announced its ambition to achieve
others, more stringent limitations on GHG ratified the Paris Agreement are adopting net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse
emissions, increased energy efficiency domestic measures, referred to as gas emissions across its wholly-owned
standards, mandates for renewable nationally determined contributions, to operated assets by 2050, which in turn will
energy and other alternative energy meet its goals, which include reducing help support the Kingdom’s own 2060
sources, carbon taxes, and emission their use of fossil fuels and increasing net-zero goal. If Aramco does not meet its
cap and trade regimes. their use of alternative energy sources. announced net-zero targets, or if Aramco’s
In addition, at the United Nations’ 26th efforts do not meet increasing societal or
The regulatory landscape has been Conference of the Parties (COP26), stakeholder expectations and standards,
evolving rapidly, and it is difficult to predict diplomats from almost 200 countries Aramco’s reputation, employee retention,
the ultimate impact GHG-related laws, agreed in the Glasgow Climate Pact to and business may be negatively impacted.
regulations, lawsuits, and international accelerate development and deployment
agreements will have on Aramco. In the of clean power generation, increase
Terrorism and armed conflict may materially and adversely affect Aramco.
Aramco’s facilities have been targeted by result, overall crude oil production and processing and cogeneration
terrorist and other attacks. For example, associated gas production were reduced infrastructure at the Shaybah NGL facility.
in March 2021, the Riyadh refinery was and Aramco took a number of actions Furthermore, since 2017, areas of the
subject to an attack by unmanned aerial to minimize the impact of lower Arabian Kingdom have been subject to ballistic
vehicles. The incident did not have any Light and Arabian Extra Light production missile and other aerial attacks from
impact on Aramco’s supply of refined by tapping into Aramco’s inventories Yemen, including areas of the Kingdom
products to its customers. In September located outside the Kingdom and where Aramco has facilities or operations.
2019, the Abqaiq facility and the Khurais swapping grades of deliveries to Any additional terrorist or other attacks
processing facility were subject to attack Arabian Medium and Arabian Heavy. could have a material adverse effect on
by unmanned aerial vehicles and missiles. Aramco’s business, financial position, and
Abqaiq is Aramco’s largest oil processing In addition, in May and August 2019, the results of operations which could cause
facility. The Khurais field is one of East-West Pipeline and the Shaybah field, Aramco to expend significant funds.
Aramco’s principal oil fields. These attacks respectively, were targeted by unmanned
resulted in the temporary suspension of aerial vehicle attacks. These attacks
processing at Abqaiq and Khurais. As a resulted in fires and damage to the
90 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 93]
Risk
Risks related to Aramco, its operations and industry
Aramco exports a substantial portion of its crude oil and refined products to customers in Asia,
and adverse economic or political developments in Asia could impact its results of operations.
Aramco exports a substantial portion and production volumes. Furthermore, its customers located in the region.
of its crude oil and refined products to the refined, chemical and petrochemical Moreover, any such development in other
customers in Asia. In 2021, customers products that are produced at Aramco’s parts of the world, including political and
in Asia, including Aramco’s affiliated joint ventures and international social instability or armed conflict in the
refineries located in Asia, purchased operations in Asia are generally sold Middle East and North Africa (MENA)
81% of its crude exports and 55% of locally and exported to other Asian region, may result in other producers
its total crude production. countries. Since early 2020, economic supplying surplus capacity to Asia,
conditions in Asia have been significantly thereby increasing competition for
In addition, Aramco expects to impacted by the outbreak of COVID-19. customers in Asia and affecting the
export additional crude to Asia as If there is a prolonged slowdown in prices at which Aramco sells its products
new downstream assets in Asia economic growth in the future, an to customers there. A significant decrease
commence operations. economic recession, or other adverse in demand for Aramco’s products in Asia
economic or political development in could have a material adverse effect on
Aramco expects crude exports to Asia, Aramco may experience a material its business, financial position, and results
customers in Asia to continue to constitute reduction in demand for its products by of operations.
a significant percentage of its total export
Aramco is subject to operational risks and hazards that may have a significant impact on its operations or result in significant
liabilities and costs.
Aramco is subject to operational risks These risks could result in damage to, or Furthermore, the majority of Aramco’s
common in the oil and gas industry, destruction of, Aramco’s properties and assets are located in the Kingdom and it
including: facilities, death or injury to people, and relies heavily on a cross-country pipeline
harm to the environment, which could system and terminal facilities to transport
• Crude oil or gas spills, pipeline leaks have a significant impact on its operations crude oil and products through the
and ruptures, storage tank leaks, and or result in significant liabilities and Kingdom. Aramco also depends on
accidents involving explosions, fires, remediation costs. In addition, Aramco is critical assets to process its crude oil,
blowouts and surface cratering; not insured against all risks, and insurance such as the Abqaiq facility, which is
in connection with certain risks and its largest oil processing facility and
• Power shortages or failures;
hazards may not be available (see risk processes a significant amount of
• Mechanical or equipment failures; — Aramco could be subject to losses from Aramco’s daily produced crude oil.
risks related to insufficient insurance). The East-West Pipeline, the Shaybah
• Transportation interruptions and
To the extent a subcontractor was NGL facility, the Abqaiq facility, and
accidents;
responsible for the damage, Aramco’s the Khurais processing facility have
• Tropical monsoons, storms, floods, recourse to the relevant subcontractor been subject to attacks within the last
and other natural disasters (including may be limited by contract or the financial few years. If Aramco’s critical transport
weather conditions associated with viability of such subcontractor. Such systems or processing facilities were
climate change); and occurrences could also interrupt Aramco’s subject to significant disruption, it
operations, delay Aramco’s projects or could have a material adverse effect on
• Chemical spills, discharges, or releases of
damage its reputation, which could have Aramco’s business, financial position, and
toxic or hazardous substances or gases.
a material adverse effect on its business. results of operations (see risk — Terrorism
and armed conflict may materially and
adversely affect Aramco).
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 91
[TABLE DATA]
|  |
|  |
|  |
[Page 94]
Risk factors continued
Estimates of proved hydrocarbon reserves depend on significant interpretations, assumptions, and judgments. Any significant
deviation or changes in existing economic and operating conditions could affect the estimated quantity and value of Aramco’s
proved reserves.
Aramco’s reserve estimates conform to There can be no assurance that the regulations, the terms of the Concession
the SPE-PRMS definitions and guidelines, interpretations, assumptions and or other events. Further, declining
which are internationally recognized judgments utilized by Aramco to estimate hydrocarbon prices may cause certain
industry standards. Aramco’s and D&M’s proved reserves, or those utilized by D&M proved reserves to no longer be
estimates of the quantity of Aramco’s for the purposes of preparing its considered commercially viable, which
proved hydrocarbon reserves depend on certification letter, will prove to be could result in downward adjustments to
significant interpretations, assumptions accurate. Any significant deviation from Aramco’s estimates of Aramco’s proved
and judgments relating to available these interpretations, assumptions or reserves, impairment of Aramco’s assets,
geological, geophysical, engineering, judgments could materially affect the or changes to Aramco’s capital
contractual, economic and other estimated quantity or value of Aramco’s expenditures and production plans.
information, and take into account proved reserves. In addition, these Moreover, proved reserves estimates
existing economic and operating estimates could change due to new are subject to change due to changes in
conditions and commercial viability as at information from production or drilling published rules or changes in guidelines.
the date the reserve estimates are made. activities, changes in economic factors, Any material reduction in the quantity or
including changes in the price of value of Aramco’s proved reserves could
hydrocarbons, changes to laws, adversely affect Aramco’s business.
The independent third-party certification letter does not cover the entirety of the Kingdom’s estimated reserves.
Aramco retained independent petroleum scope because of the overall scale of the the same Concession time period. There
consultants, D&M, to independently Kingdom’s reserves and the concentration is no independent third-party certification
evaluate, as at December 31, 2019, of deposits in the major reservoirs that letter with respect to the balance of the
reservoirs Aramco believes accounted were assessed. Further independent Kingdom’s proved oil equivalent reserves
for approximately 85% of its proved oil assessment of the Kingdom’s smaller or as at a more recent date than
reserves to which it has rights under the reservoirs would have taken several years December 31, 2019. Any material
Concession and remain to be produced to complete. D&M’s reserves estimation deviation in the quantity of proved
after December 31, 2019, but before of 214.2 billion barrels of oil equivalent reserves could have a material adverse
December 31, 2077 (the end of the initial reserves for the reservoirs it evaluated effect on Aramco’s financial position.
40-year term of the Concession plus the was within 1% of Aramco’s internal
first 20-year extension). Aramco chose this estimation for the same reservoirs for
Aramco could be subject to losses from risks related to insufficient insurance.
Aramco insures against risk primarily major crude oil spills, environmental risks for which its insurance does not
by self-insuring through its captive disasters, terrorist attacks, or acts of war. cover the entire loss. Any such losses
insurance subsidiary, Stellar, which In addition, it does not maintain business could have a material adverse effect
provides insurance exclusively to Aramco. interruption insurance for disruptions on Aramco’s business, financial position,
Aramco also obtains insurance in certain to its operations, and certain of its and results of operations.
areas from third-party providers in excess operations are insured separately from
of the coverage provided through Stellar. the rest of its business. Furthermore,
there can be no assurance that Aramco
Aramco does not insure against all risks can continue to renew its existing levels
and its insurance may not protect it of coverage on commercially acceptable
against liability from all potential events, terms, or at all. As a result, it could incur
particularly catastrophic events such as significant losses from uninsured risks or
92 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 95]
Risk
Aramco’s ability to achieve its strategic growth objectives depends on the successful delivery of current and future projects.
Aramco’s ability to achieve its strategic • Its ability to obtain funding necessary on its projects, assuming liabilities of
growth objectives depends, in part, on for the implementation of the relevant joint venture or affiliate partners or other
the successful, timely, and cost-effective project on terms acceptable to it, or at all; consequences, any of which could have
delivery of capital projects carried out a material adverse effect on Aramco’s
• Difficulties in obtaining necessary
by Aramco, or by it along with joint business, financial position, and results
permits, complying with applicable
venture or affiliate partners. Aramco of operations.
regulations and changes to applicable
faces numerous challenges in developing
laws or regulations;
such projects, including: In addition, many of Aramco’s projects
• Difficulties coordinating multiple require significant capital expenditures.
• Fluctuations in the prices for contractors and subcontractors involved If cash flows from operating activities and
hydrocarbons, which may impact its in complex projects; and funds from external financial resources
ability to finance its projects from its are not sufficient to cover Aramco’s
• Undertaking projects or ventures in new
cash flow from operating activities or capital expenditure requirements, Aramco
lines of business in which Aramco has
make projects less economically feasible may be required to reallocate available
limited or no prior operating experience.
or rendered uneconomic; capital among its projects or modify its
capital expenditure plans, which may
• Making economic estimates or These challenges have led and could lead
result in delays to, or cancellation of,
assumptions based on data or to delays in the completion of projects
certain projects or deferral of certain
conditions, including crude oil and gas and increased project costs. If projects
capital expenditures. Any change to
price assumptions, which may change; are delayed, cost more than expected,
Aramco’s capital expenditure plans could,
or do not generate the expected return,
• Constraints on the availability and cost in turn, have a material adverse effect on
Aramco’s operations and expected levels
of skilled labor, contractors, materials, Aramco’s growth objectives and its
of production could be impacted. These
equipment and facilities; business, financial position and results
occurrences could result in Aramco
of operations.
reviewing and recognizing impairments
Aramco’s historical results of operations may not be easily compared from year to year.
In recent years, the Government has other income related to sales, royalties, future performance. For a more detailed
adopted a number of changes to the fiscal other taxes, income taxes, and zakat. discussion of the fiscal regime changes
regime under which Aramco operates. Accordingly, Aramco’s historical results and their effect on Aramco’s consolidated
These changes have a material impact of operations are not necessarily financial statements, see Section 3: Results
on Aramco’s results of operations and determinative of its likely future cash and performance, Section 7: Additional
make its consolidated financial statements flows, results of operations, or rate of financial and legal information, and Section
for certain periods less comparable, growth, and its past performance should 8: Consolidated financial statements.
particularly with respect to revenue and not be relied upon as an indication of its
Aramco may not realize some or all of the expected benefits of recent or future acquisitions, including the SABIC acquisition.
Aramco has engaged in and may continue contingencies (such as contractual, Aramco will need to manage its
to engage in acquisitions of businesses, financial, regulatory, environmental, ownership stake in SABIC in a manner
technologies, services, products, and or other obligations and liabilities) and which supports the optimization of
other assets from time to time. Any such risks related to the acquired business SABIC’s performance. The realization
acquisition entails various risks, including and the maintenance and integration of of such benefits may be affected by a
that Aramco may not be able to accurately procedures, controls and quality standards. number of factors, many of which are
assess the value, strengths, and weaknesses These difficulties could impact Aramco’s beyond Aramco’s control. Failure to
of the acquisition or investment targets, ongoing business, distract its management realize some or all of the anticipated
effectively integrate the purchased and employees and increase its expenses benefits of the acquisition may impact
businesses or assets, achieve the expected which could, in turn, have a material Aramco’s financial performance and
synergies or recover the purchase costs of adverse effect on its business, financial prospects, including the growth of its
the acquired businesses or assets. Aramco position, and results of operations. Downstream business.
may also incur unanticipated costs or
assume unexpected liabilities and losses On June 16, 2020, Aramco acquired the
in connection with any business or asset PIF’s 70% equity interest in SABIC for total
it acquires, including in relation to the consideration of $69.1 billion. For the
retention of key employees, legal acquisition to be successful for Aramco,
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 93
[Page 96]
Risk factors continued
Aramco is exposed to risks related to operating in several countries.
A substantial portion of Aramco’s • Complying with tax regimes in multiple • Conducting business through a number
downstream operations is conducted jurisdictions, and the imposition of new of subsidiaries, joint operations and joint
outside the Kingdom. Risks inherent in or increased withholding or other taxes ventures and challenges implementing
operating in several countries include: or royalties; Aramco’s policies and procedures in
such entities; and
• The imposition of new, or changes to
• Complying with, and managing
existing, transfer pricing regulations or • Fluctuations in foreign currency
changes to and developments in,
the imposition of new restrictions on exchange rates.
a variety of laws and regulations,
foreign trade, investment, or travel;
including without limitation, with
Operating in several countries also
respect to price regulations, data • Adverse changes in economic and trade
requires significant management
privacy, cybersecurity, human rights, sanctions, import or export controls,
attention and resources. The occurrence
the environment, forced divestment of and national security measures resulting
of any of these risks may be burdensome
assets, expropriation of property, and in business disruptions, including delays
and could have a material adverse effect
cancellation or forced renegotiation or denials of import or export licenses
on Aramco’s business, financial position,
of contract rights; or blocked or rejected financial
and results of operations.
transactions;
Aramco is dependent on Senior Management and key personnel.
Aramco operates in a competitive employment with Aramco or leave their be challenging. If Aramco is unable to
environment, and its success depends positions due to reasons beyond Aramco’s hire and retain Senior Management and
upon its ability to identify, hire, develop, control. If Aramco experiences a large key personnel with requisite skills and
motivate and retain highly qualified number of departures of its oil and gas expertise, it could have a material adverse
Senior Management and key personnel. experts in a relatively short period of effect on Aramco’s business, financial
Aramco’s Senior Management and key time, attracting and retaining a sufficient position, and results of operations.
personnel may voluntarily terminate their number of replacement personnel may
Aramco’s operations are dependent on the reliability and security of its IT systems.
Aramco relies on the security of critical However, there is a risk that determined breadth of any potential future
information and operational technology attackers with access to the necessary cyberattack remain unknown, and remote
systems. Cyber incidents may negatively resources could successfully penetrate work arrangements in response to the
impact these or other functions, and Aramco systems. Attempts to gain outbreak of COVID-19 may increase the
particularly in relation to industrial control unauthorized access to Aramco networks risk of cybersecurity incidents, data
systems, may result in physical damage, have been successful in the past, including breaches or cyberattacks. Such incidents
injury or loss of life, and environmental a 2012 cyberattack in which Aramco could result in significant costs, including
harm. Aramco’s systems are a high-profile resorted to manual procedures for certain investigation and remediation expenses,
target for sophisticated cyberattacks by nonoperational related matters while the regulatory scrutiny, legal liability and the
nation-states, criminal hackers and breach was contained. To date, none of loss of personal or sensitive business or
competitors, and Aramco routinely these attempts have been material to third-party information, and could have
fends off malicious attempts to gain Aramco’s financial performance or a material adverse effect on Aramco’s
unauthorized systems access. reputation. Nonetheless, the nature and operations and reputation.
94 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 97]
Risk
Legal and regulatory risks
Aramco is and has been subject to litigation, including with respect to international trade litigation,
disputes, or agreements, and may be subject to additional litigation in the future.
Aramco is and has been subject to To date, the OPEC-related antitrust or operations. Since the majority of
significant litigation, primarily in the lawsuits have been dismissed on the basis Aramco’s products are exported, any such
United States and the Kingdom. Some of various sovereign defenses under U.S. measures may have a material adverse
of the most significant U.S. litigation law, including the political question and effect on Aramco’s business, financial
has involved allegations of violations of the act of state doctrines, sovereign position, and results of operations.
antitrust laws arising, in part, from the immunity under the Foreign Sovereign
Kingdom’s membership and participation Immunity Act (FSIA) and other legal In addition, the Kingdom is a party to
in OPEC. Such antitrust litigation sought defenses. However, there is no assurance international trade agreements, such as
extensive relief, including treble damages, that Aramco will prevail on the basis of World Trade Organization agreements
divestiture of assets in the United States, these defenses in the future in connection that include commitments by the Kingdom
and disgorgement of profits. If granted, with OPEC-related or other lawsuits, and with respect to the composition of its laws,
this relief could have had a material Aramco and its affiliated companies could regulations and practices that impact
adverse impact on Aramco. be subject to similar claims elsewhere in international trade. The Kingdom may
the future where it may not have similar become a party to other such agreements
In addition, increasing attention on defenses. In addition, there is a risk that in the future. Compliance by the Kingdom
climate change risks may result in laws could be enacted in the future that with any such commitments may directly
increased litigation against Aramco and would expressly remove or weaken or indirectly impact Aramco and could
its affiliated companies. Claims relating certain sovereign defenses, including cause it to alter its operations in a manner
to climate change matters have been filed sovereign immunity under FSIA with that is costly or otherwise has a material
against companies in the oil and gas respect to certain claims. adverse effect on its business, financial
industry by private parties, shareholders, position, or results of operations. If the
public interest organizations, state Litigation could result in substantial Kingdom fails to comply with these
attorneys general, cities, and other costs (including civil or criminal penalties, commitments, Aramco’s business
localities, especially in the United States or both, damages or the imposition of operations could be exposed to scrutiny,
and Europe. In certain cases, the lawsuits import trade measures) and require and Aramco or its affiliates’ exports could
demand that the defendants pay financial Aramco to devote substantial resources be subject to potential remedial measures,
amounts as compensation for alleged and divert management attention, any such as duties, which could have a material
past and future damages resulting from of which may have a material adverse adverse effect on Aramco’s business,
climate change. Other lawsuits seek court effect on its business, financial position financial position and results of operations.
orders requiring energy companies to and results of operations.
reduce the GHG emissions associated Additionally, from time to time, Aramco
with their businesses and products. Moreover, exports of crude oil, refined has been subject to and remains subject
products, and petrochemicals by Aramco to, claims for title to land on which it
Furthermore, oil and gas companies or its affiliates to foreign countries may be conducts drilling and other operations.
have been subject to a growing number affected by litigation, regulatory actions, For example, in the case of Al-Qarqani
of lawsuits alleging damages from the investigations, disputes or agreements that et al. v. Arabian American Oil Company,
companies’ contributions to climate lead to the imposition of import trade which has now been dismissed for lack of
change, failure to protect the environment measures, including anti-dumping and jurisdiction, petitioners sought to enforce
from the effects of their operations, countervailing duties, safeguard measures, against Aramco a USD $18.0 billion
concealing information about the import licensing and customs arbitral award granted by an arbitral
consequences of the use of their products requirements, and new or increased tribunal in Egypt with respect to certain
on climate change, misleading the public tariffs, quotas or embargoes. The land title claims.
by engaging in greenwashing and similar possibility and effect of any such measures
matters. Motiva, a U.S. affiliate of Aramco will depend on the laws governing the Further, Aramco’s investors could assert
that engages in refining and other foreign country to which the applicable claims against it and its Directors and
activities in the United States, has been products are being exported and Senior Executives alleging breaches of
named in several of these lawsuits, and applicable international trade agreements. applicable laws and regulations or other
Aramco and its affiliated companies may Foreign countries may take such measures legal theories.
be named in similar lawsuits in the future. for political or other reasons, including
reasons unrelated to Aramco’s actions
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 95
[TABLE DATA]
|
|
[Page 98]
Risk factors continued
Aramco operates in a regulated industry and its business may be affected by regulatory changes.
The oil and gas industry in the Kingdom Aramco satisfies certain conditions have a significant effect on Aramco’s
is a regulated industry. Any change in commensurate with current operating business, financial position, and results of
the Kingdom's laws, regulations, policies practices (and may be amended and operations. Furthermore, if the Kingdom
or practices relating to the oil and gas extended for an additional 40 years were to take additional actions under its
industry could have a material adverse thereafter subject to Aramco and the regulatory powers or change laws,
effect on Aramco’s business, financial Government agreeing on the terms regulations, policies or practices relating
position, and results of operations. of the extension), there is no assurance to the oil and gas industry, Aramco’s
In addition, although the Concession that the Government will not revoke business, financial position, and results
provides for an initial period of 40 the Concession in whole or in part or of operations could be materially and
years, which will be extended by the adversely change Aramco’s rights in adversely affected.
Government for 20 years provided respect of the Concession, which would
Violations of applicable sanctions and trade restrictions, as well as anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, could adversely
affect Aramco.
Aramco currently conducts business and There can be no assurance that Aramco’s for any other reason, such sanctions could
could in the future decide to take part in corporate governance, compliance, and result in asset freezes against Aramco,
new business activities in locations where ethics policies and procedures (including restrictions on investors trading securities
certain parties are subject to sanctions with respect to sanctions and trade issued by Aramco or other adverse
and trade restrictions, as well as anti- restrictions, anti-bribery and anti- consequences. Such penalties or sanctions
bribery and anti-corruption laws, corruption) will protect it from the could have a material adverse effect on
imposed by the United States, the United improper conduct of its employees or Aramco’s business and financial position.
Kingdom, the European Union, and other business partners, which conduct could
sanctioning bodies. Laws and regulations result in substantial civil or criminal
governing sanctions, trade restrictions, penalties. If Aramco were to be
bribery, and corruption are complex and sanctioned in the future, as a result
are subject to change. of its transactions with other parties or
96 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 99]
Risk
Aramco is required to obtain, maintain, and renew governmental licenses, permits, and approvals in order to operate its businesses.
The rights granted to Aramco under the the Hydrocarbons Law, GSPR, or with or obtain the required permits and
Concession represent Aramco’s licenses, respect to certain other activities approvals or the revocation or termination
permits, and approvals necessary to unrelated to hydrocarbons operations. of existing licenses, permits and
conduct business in the Kingdom with There can be no assurance that the approvals, may interrupt Aramco’s
respect to hydrocarbon operations and relevant authorities will issue any such operations and could have a material
related activities. However, Aramco is licenses, permits, or approvals in the time adverse effect on Aramco’s business,
required to obtain and renew any license, frame anticipated by Aramco, or at all. financial position, and results of
permit, or approval that is required under Any unforeseen failure to renew, maintain operations.
Aramco’s operations are subject to environmental protection, health and safety laws and regulations, and increased concerns
regarding the safe use of chemicals and plastics and their potential impact on the environment have resulted in more restrictive
regulations and could lead to new regulations.
Aramco’s operations are subject to laws Aramco may also (i) incur significant costs including personal injury claims, may
and regulations relating to environmental associated with the investigation, cleanup be filed in the future. Motiva could be
protection, health and safety. These laws and restoration of contaminated land, subject to material liabilities relating to
and regulations govern, among other water or ecosystems, as well as claims for MTBE claims.
things, the generation, storage, handling, damage to property, and (ii) face claims
use, disposal and transportation of of death or injury to persons resulting Moreover, concerns regarding chemicals
hazardous materials, the emission and from exposure to hazardous materials and plastics, including their safe use and
discharge of hazardous materials, or adverse impacts on natural resources potential impact on the environment,
groundwater use and contamination, and properties of others resulting from its and how plastics contribute to climate
and the health and safety of Aramco’s operations (including potentially from the change, reflect a growing trend in societal
employees and the communities in transportation of hazardous substances demands for increasing levels of product
which it operates. Compliance with and products, feedstock or chemical safety, less plastic use, environmental
these obligations can result in significant pollution). Any such costs or liabilities protection, and recycling. These concerns
expenditures. If Aramco fails to comply could have a material adverse effect have led to more restrictive regulations
with applicable laws and regulations, it on Aramco’s business, financial position, and could lead to new regulations.
could be subject to fines or the partial or and results of operations. In particular, They could also manifest themselves
total shutdown of related operations. in the United States, Motiva and other in shareholder proposals, delays or failures
Aramco has, from time to time, shut companies in the petroleum refining and in obtaining or retaining regulatory
down certain facilities in order to ensure marketing industry historically used MTBE approvals, increased costs related to
compliance with applicable laws and as a gasoline additive. Motiva is a party complying with more restrictive
regulations. In addition, a stricter to pending lawsuits concerning alleged regulations, delayed product launches,
interpretation of existing laws and environmental impacts associated with lack of market acceptance, lower sales
regulations, any changes in these laws historic releases of MTBE in the United volumes or discontinuance of chemicals or
and regulations, or the enactment of States, many of which involve other plastics products, continued pressure for
new laws and regulations may impose petroleum marketers and refiners. more stringent regulatory intervention and
new obligations on Aramco or otherwise Plaintiffs in these MTBE lawsuits generally increased litigation. These consequences
adversely affect Aramco’s business, seek to spread liability among large could also have an adverse effect on
financial position, and results of operations. groups of oil companies and seek Aramco’s business, financial position,
substantial damages. Additional lawsuits results of operations, and reputation.
and claims related to the use of MTBE,
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 97
[Page 100]
Risk factors continued
The mechanism for equalization compensation Aramco receives from the Government in respect of domestic sales of certain
hydrocarbons may be changed.
The Concession requires Aramco compensation for the difference between mechanism, Aramco receives
to meet domestic demand for certain regulated prices and equalization prices in compensation for the difference between
hydrocarbons, petroleum products, and respect of such sales. Domestic Prices and Blended Prices in
LPGs through domestic production or respect of such sales.
imports. In addition, pursuant to the Furthermore, in the Kingdom, natural gas
Kingdom’s regulatory regime, Aramco prices are regulated by the Government No assurance can be given that either
is required to sell crude oil and certain and the price that domestic customers equalization mechanism will not be
refined products to third parties in the pay is traditionally set by the Council of revoked or amended on terms less
Kingdom at the Government’s regulated Ministers. Effective September 17, 2019, favorable to Aramco than the existing
prices. The regulated prices for these the Government implemented an regime. In addition, in the event that
products have historically generated less equalization mechanism to compensate the equalization price is less than the
revenue for Aramco than if the same Aramco for the revenue it directly forgoes regulated price, in the case of liquids,
products had been sold for export. as a result of selling Regulated Gas or the Blended Price is less than the
Products in the Kingdom at Domestic Domestic Price, in the case of natural
Pursuant to an equalization mechanism, Prices, in the event that the Council of gas, the difference would be due from
the Government compensates Aramco for Ministers and the Ministry of Energy do Aramco to the Government. Any such
the revenue it directly forgoes as a result not adjust the Domestic Prices to meet event could have a material adverse effect
of selling these products in the Kingdom the pricing of the gas projects in order on Aramco’s earnings, cash flow, financial
at regulated prices. Under this to ensure Aramco receives a commercial position, and results of operations.
mechanism, Aramco receives rate of return on each project. Under this
Aramco is required to separate its Downstream business into an independent legal entity within a certain time period as a condition
of the Government allowing the general corporate tax rate to apply to Aramco’s Downstream business.
Effective January 1, 2020, the tax rate In order for the general corporate tax taxed retroactively on an annual basis for
applicable to Aramco’s downstream rate to apply to Aramco’s Downstream such five-year period in accordance with
activities is, for a five-year period, the business, Aramco is required to separate the multitiered tax rates applicable to
general corporate tax rate of 20% that its downstream activities (from the oil and domestic oil and hydrocarbon production
applies to all similar domestic downstream other hydrocarbon production activities) companies. In such case, Aramco will be
companies under the Income Tax Law, into an independent legal entity before required to pay the difference in taxes
rather than the 50% to 85% multitiered December 31, 2024. If Aramco does not due to the Government, which could
structure of income tax rates that comply in separating its Downstream adversely affect its financial position.
previously applied to domestic oil and business within this five-year period,
hydrocarbon production companies. Aramco’s Downstream business will be
98 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 101]
Risk
Risks related to the Kingdom
The Government determines the Kingdom’s maximum level of crude oil production and target MSC.
The Government determines the MSC. MSC refers to the average maximum reach the mandated MSC by
Kingdom’s maximum level of crude oil number of barrels per day of crude oil 2027 through multiple increments.
production in the exercise of its sovereign that can be produced for one year during
prerogative. Accordingly, the Government any future planning period, after taking The Government’s decisions regarding
may in its sole discretion increase or into account all planned capital crude oil production and spare capacity,
decrease the Kingdom’s maximum crude expenditures and maintenance, repair and Aramco’s costs of complying with
oil production at any time based on its and operating costs, and after being such decisions, may not maximize returns
sovereign energy security goals or for any given three months to make operational for Aramco. For example, Aramco may
other reason, which may be influenced adjustments. Aramco incurs substantial be precluded from producing more
by, among other things, global economic costs to maintain MSC and has historically crude oil in response to either a decrease
and political conditions and their utilized a significant amount of this spare or increase in prices, which may limit its
corresponding impact on the Kingdom’s capacity. However, there can be no ability to generate additional revenue or
policy and strategic decisions with respect assurance that it will utilize spare capacity to increase its production of downstream
to exploration, development and in the future. In addition, the Government products. In addition, a decision to
production of crude oil reserves. has decided in the past and may in the increase the Kingdom’s MSC could
future decide to increase target MSC. require Aramco to make significant capital
In order to facilitate rapid changes in MSC was 12.0 mmbpd from January 1, expenditures to build new infrastructure
production volumes, the Government 2019, to December 31, 2021. In line with and facilities. Any of these actions could
requires Aramco to maintain MSC in the Government’s mandate for MSC to have a material adverse effect on
excess of its then current production in be increased to 13.0 mmbpd, Aramco is Aramco’s business, financial position,
accordance with the Hydrocarbons Law proceeding with its plans to gradually and results of operations.
and has the exclusive authority to set
The Kingdom’s public finances are highly connected to the hydrocarbon industry.
The Government is expected to continue rates that are customary in other Government and semi-Government
to rely on royalties, taxes, dividends from hydrocarbon producing jurisdictions. entities, and separate legal entities in
Aramco and other income from the In addition, pursuant to an equalization which the Government has share
hydrocarbon industry for a significant mechanism, the Government compensates ownership or control. A shortfall in
portion of its revenue. Any change in crude Aramco for the revenue it directly forgoes funding to the Government or a decision
oil, condensate, NGL, oil product, chemical as a result of selling crude oil and certain to seek more revenue from hydrocarbons
and natural gas prices, or other occurrences refined products in the Kingdom at may lead the Government to change the
that negatively affect Aramco’s results of regulated prices, which further impacts the fiscal regime to which hydrocarbon
operations could materially affect the Kingdom’s cash flow. Effective January 1, producers in the Kingdom, including
macroeconomic indicators of the Kingdom, 2020, the marginal royalty rates applicable Aramco, are subject. Any such change
including GDP, balance of payments and to crude oil and condensate production could have a material adverse effect on
foreign trade and the amount of cash were modified, the tax rate applicable Aramco’s business, financial position,
available to the Government. to Aramco’s downstream activities was and results of operations.
reduced and the Government expanded
Changes made to the Kingdom’s tax the equalization mechanism to include
regime for hydrocarbon producers and LPGs and certain other products.
the royalty rate to which Aramco is subject Moreover, the Government guarantees
seek to align the fiscal regime to which amounts due to Aramco with respect to
Aramco is subject with tax and royalty hydrocarbon products sales from various
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 99
[TABLE DATA]
|
|
[Page 102]
Risk factors continued
Political and social instability and unrest, and actual or potential armed conflicts in the MENA region and other areas, may affect
Aramco’s results of operations and financial position.
Aramco is headquartered and conducts oil and are located in areas subject to example, in February 2021, the Houthi
much of its business in the MENA region. political or armed conflict from time to group launched an offensive to seize
The MENA region is strategically time. For example, in 2020, there was a Marib and targeted oil tankers and
important geopolitically and has been missile attack on the Aramco petroleum facilities. In March 2021, the Houthi group
subject to political and security concerns plant in Jiddah. In May 2019, four oil claimed responsibility for several attacks
and social unrest, especially in recent tankers, including two owned by the including on a petroleum tank farm at
years. For example, since 2011, a number National Shipping Company of Saudi one of the world’s largest oil shipping
of countries in the region have witnessed Arabia-Bahri, were sabotaged near the ports. Any unexpected changes in
significant social unrest, including Strait of Hormuz, and in July 2019, a British political, social or economic conditions
widespread public demonstrations and, oil tanker was seized by Iranian forces in may have a material adverse effect on
in certain cases, armed conflict, terrorist the Strait of Hormuz. In addition, in April Aramco, which could in turn have a
attacks, diplomatic disputes, foreign and July 2018, Yemen’s Houthi group material adverse effect on Aramco’s
military intervention, and a change of attacked tankers operated by the National business, financial position, and results
government. Armed conflict is currently Shipping Company of Saudi Arabia-Bahri of operations or investments that Aramco
ongoing in Yemen, Iraq, Syria, and Libya. off the coast of Yemen. Any political or has made or may make in the future.
Such social unrest and other political and armed conflict or other event, including
security concerns may not abate, may those described above, that impacts Furthermore, any of the events described
worsen, and could spread to additional Aramco’s use of the Strait of Hormuz, above may contribute to instability in the
countries. Some of Aramco’s facilities, Suez Canal, or other international MENA region and may have a material
infrastructure and reserves are located shipping routes could have a material adverse effect on investors’ willingness to
near the borders of countries that have adverse effect on Aramco’s business, invest in the Kingdom or companies that
been or may be impacted. No assurance financial position, and results are based in the Kingdom.
can be given that these political or of operations.
security concerns or social unrest will
not have a material adverse effect on Moreover, the majority of Aramco’s
Aramco’s business, financial position, assets and operations are located in
and results of operations. the Kingdom, and accordingly, may
be affected by the political, social and
In addition, the majority of Aramco’s economic conditions from time to time
crude oil production is exported using prevailing in or affecting the Kingdom
international supply routes. In particular, or the wider MENA region. Yemen’s
the Strait of Hormuz and the Suez Canal Houthi group regularly launch drones
are key shipping routes for Aramco’s crude and missiles into Saudi Arabia. For
100 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 103]
Risk
Aramco’s financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected if the Kingdom stops pegging the SAR to the
U.S. dollar.
Aramco has determined that the U.S. dollar were to change in the future and In addition, Aramco pays dividends
dollar is its functional currency because the SAR were to become stronger relative to the Government, in its capacity as a
a substantial amount of its products are to the U.S. dollar, Aramco may experience shareholder of Aramco, in U.S. dollars.
traded in U.S. dollars in international a significant increase in the SAR- If the SAR is no longer pegged to the
markets. However, many of its operational denominated costs of its operations. Such U.S. dollar and the value of the SAR
and other expenses are denominated in an increase could have a material adverse were to change, Aramco may be required
SAR, which have been exchanged at effect on Aramco’s business, financial to expend additional cash to fund any
a fixed rate to the U.S. dollar in the position, and results of operations. dividends. Such changes could have a
Kingdom since 1986. If the Kingdom’s material adverse effect on Aramco’s
policy of pegging the SAR to the U.S. financial position.
The Government may direct Aramco to undertake projects or provide assistance for initiatives outside Aramco’s core business,
which may not be consistent with Aramco’s immediate commercial objectives or profit maximization.
The Government has directed, and may assistance for certain Government to the Kingdom and in Aramco’s long-term
in the future direct, Aramco to undertake initiatives. The Concession requires that all commercial interests, they have often been
projects or provide assistance for initiatives Aramco contracts with any Government outside of Aramco’s core businesses and
outside Aramco’s core business in agency or any arrangement for the have not always been consistent with its
furtherance of the Government’s furnishing of hydrocarbons, services or immediate commercial objectives or profit
macroeconomic, social or other objectives, otherwise shall be on a commercial basis, maximization. If the Government directs
leveraging Aramco’s know-how, resources, and on September 5, 2019, Aramco and Aramco to undertake future projects other
and operational capabilities. For instance, the Government entered into a framework than on a commercial basis, Aramco’s
the Government has previously directed agreement to govern the furnishing of financial position and results of operation
Aramco to develop and construct large services by Aramco to the Government. may be materially and adversely affected.
infrastructure projects and provide While these projects and initiatives have
management, logistical and other technical generally been of national importance
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 101
[Page 106]
Board of Directors
Setting high governance standards
The Board of Directors (Board) of the The Chairman of the Board is H.E. Yasir All Directors were elected at the
Company acts as an oversight body O. Al-Rumayyan. The current members Company’s Ordinary Annual General
for Company management, including of the Board include high-ranking Saudi Assembly meeting (AGM) held on
providing strategic leadership and Government officials and former senior July 1, 2021, to serve a three-year term.
guidance, as well as assessing executives from the international oil H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi and Sir Mark
opportunities, risks, and risk mitigation and gas, chemical, petroleum refining, Moody-Stuart served as Directors until
controls of the Company. The Board petrochemical, and finance industries. July 1, 2021.
also oversees the Company’s governance,
risk and compliance regime.
Committee membership key1
Committee Chair
Audit Committee
Risk and HSE Committee
Nomination Committee
Compensation Committee
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan H.E. Dr. Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf
H.E. Mohammed A. Al-Jadaan H.E. Mohammad M. Al-Tuwaijri Mr. Andrew N. Liveris
Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans Mr. Peter L. Cella Mr. Mark A. Weinberger
Mr. Stuart T. Gulliver Mr. Amin H. Nasser Mr. Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh
1. The Committee membership shown is as of the date of the Annual Report.
104 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 107]
Corporate
governance
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan H.E. Dr. Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf • Chairman of the National Center for
Privatization & PPP (NCP), since 2019;
Chairman Deputy Chairman
• Chairman of the National Debt Management
Non-executive Director Non-executive Director
Center, since 2019;
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan, 52, is the Chairman H.E. Dr. Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf, 73, has served as a • Director of the Saudi Authority for Data and
of the Board. H.E. Al-Rumayyan has served as a Director of the Company since 1999. Currently, Artificial Intelligence, since 2019;
Director of the Company since 2016. Currently, H.E. Dr. Al-Assaf serves as a Minister of State of
• Director of King Abdulaziz City for Science
H.E. Al-Rumayyan serves as Governor and Director the Kingdom and a member of the Council of
and Technology, since 2019;
of the Board of the PIF. He also serves as Chairman Ministers, the Council of Political and Security
of the Board of the Saudi Decision Support Center, Affairs, and the Council of Economic and • Director of the Royal Commission for Riyadh
as well as a Director on the Boards of Uber Development Affairs. He also serves as a City, since 2019;
Technologies, Inc. and ARM Limited. Director on the Board of the PIF. • Committee Chairman of the Privatization
Program Committee, since 2019;
H.E. Al-Rumayyan also currently serves in the H.E. Dr. Al-Assaf has also served in the following
following capacities: capacities: • Chairman of the Non-Oil Revenue Center,
since 2018;
• Chairman of Aviation Services Company, • Minister of Foreign Affairs from 2018 to 2019;
• Chairman of the State Properties General
since 2021; • Minister of State of the Kingdom from 2016 Authority, since 2018;
• Chairman of LIV Golf Investment LTD, to 2018;
• Committee Chairman of the Fiscal
since 2021; • Chairman of Sanabil Investments from Sustainability Program Committee, since 2017;
• Director of Oil Park Development Company, 2009 to 2017;
• Committee Chairman of the Financial Sector
since 2021; • Minister of Finance of the Kingdom from Development Program Committee, since 2017;
• Chairman of Newcastle United Football Club, 1996 to 2016;
• Committee Chairman of the Fiscal Balance
since 2021; • Governor of the International Monetary Fund Program Committee, since 2017;
• Director of Red Sea Cruises Company, since 2019; from 1996 to 2016;
• Director of National Development Fund,
• Chairman of Golf Saudi, since 2019; • Governor of the World Bank from 1996 to 2016; since 2017;
• Vice Chairman of Saudi Information • Governor of the Arab Monetary Fund from • Director of General Authority for Military
Technology Company (SITE), since 2019; 1996 to 2016; and Industries, since 2017;
• Director of NEOM Company, since 2019; • Governor of the Islamic Development Bank • Director of the PIF, since 2016;
• Director of AMAALA Company, since 2019; from 1996 to 2016. • Director of Military Industries Corporation,
• Chairman of Saudi Arabian Mining Company H.E. Dr. Al-Assaf earned a Ph.D. in Economics since 2016;
(Ma’aden), since 2019; from Colorado State University in 1982, an M.A. • Member of the Board of Governors of the
• Director of The Red Sea Development in Economics from the University of Denver in Islamic Development Bank, since 2016;
Company, since 2018; 1976 and a B.S. in Economics and Political Science • Member of the Board of Governors of the
from King Saud University in 1971.
• Vice Chairman of Roshn Real Estate Company, International Monetary Fund, since 2016;
since 2018; • Member of the Board of Governors of the
• Director of Qiddiya Investment Company, World Bank, since 2016;
H.E. Mohammed A. Al-Jadaan
since 2018; • Member of the Board of Governors of the
• Chairman of Noon Investments Company, Director Arab Fund for Economic and Social
since 2017; and Non-executive Director Development, since 2016;
• Chairman of Sanabil Investments Company, • Member of the Board of Governors of the
since 2017. H.E. Mohammed A. Al-Jadaan, 58, has served as Arab Monetary Fund, since 2016;
a Director of the Company since 2018. Currently,
H.E. Al-Rumayyan has also held the following H.E. Al-Jadaan serves as the Minister of Finance • Member of the Board of Governors of the
positions: of the Kingdom and a member of the Council Arab Bank for Economic Development in
of Ministers. He also serves as a member of the Africa, since 2016;
• Director on the Board of SoftBank Group Council for Economic and Development Affairs • Member of the Board of Governors of the Asia
Corp. from 2017 to 2020; of Saudi Arabia. Infrastructure Investment Bank, since 2016;
• Member of the Board of Governors of the H.E. Al-Jadaan also currently serves in the • Member of the Board of Governors of the
Islamic Development Bank from 2016 to 2020; following capacities: Arab Authority for Agricultural Investment
• Director of the Saudi Industrial Development and Development, since 2016; and
Fund from 2016 to 2020; • Chairman of the Zakat, Tax and Customs • Member of the Board of Governors of the
• CEO and Director of Saudi Fransi Capital LLC Authority, since 2021; Arab Investment and Export Credit Guarantee
from 2011 to 2015; • Chairman of Expenditure & Projects Efficiency Corporation, since 2016.
Authority, since 2021;
• Director of the Saudi Stock Exchange H.E. Al-Jadaan has also served in the following
(Tadawul) in 2014; • Chairman of Saudi Authority for Accredited capacities:
Valuers, since 2021;
• Director of Corporate Finance and Issuance,
CMA from 2008 to 2010; and • Chairman of the National Center of • Acting Minister of Economy and Planning
Government Resources Systems, since 2021; from 2020 to 2021;
• Head of International Brokerage for Saudi
Hollandi Bank from 1994 to 2004. • Chairman of the General Organization for • Chairman of the CMA from 2015 to 2016; and
Social Insurance, since 2020; • Co-founder and Managing Partner of
H.E. Al-Rumayyan obtained a B.S. in Accounting • Chairman of the Public Pension Agency, Al-Jadaan & Partners Law Firm from 1996
from King Faisal University in 1993 and since 2020; to 2015.
completed a General Management Program
at Harvard Business School in 2007. • Member of the Board of Trustees of H.E. Al-Jadaan obtained a B.A. in Islamic Shari’a
King Abdullah University of Science and Islamic Economics from Imam Muhammad
and Technology, since 2020; bin Saud Islamic University in 1986, and earned
a degree in Legal Studies from the Institute of
Public Administration, Riyadh in 1998.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 105
[Page 108]
Board of Directors continued
H.E. Mohammad M. Al-Tuwaijri Mr. Andrew N. Liveris Mr. Peter L. Cella
Director Director Director
Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director
H.E. Mohammad M. Al-Tuwaijri, 55, has served as Mr. Andrew N. Liveris, 67, has served as an Mr. Peter L. Cella, 64, has served as an
a Director of the Company since 2018. Currently, independent Director of the Company since 2018. independent Director of the Company since 2018.
H.E. Al-Tuwaijri serves as an advisor to the Saudi Currently, Mr. Liveris serves as Chairman of the Currently, Mr. Cella serves as a Director on the
Royal Court in a Minister rank, a member of the Board of Lucid Motors, Deputy Chairman of the Boards of Frontdoor, Inc., Inter Pipeline, and
Council for Economic and Development Affairs Board of Worley Parsons, and a Director on the ClockSpring|NRI.
(CEDA), Vice Chairman of the National Boards of IBM Corporation and Novonix. He also
Development Fund (NDF), a member of the serves as the Chairman of the BlackRock Long Mr. Cella has also served in the following
Strategic Management Committee, a member Term Private Capital Operating Committee, and capacities:
of the Finance Committee in the Saudi Royal on the Board of Trustees of KAUST, the Saudi • Director of ServiceMaster Global Holdings
Court, a member of the Supreme Coordination Foundation Hevolution, and on the Australian from 2017 to 2018;
Committee for Crisis Challenges, a Director of Foundation Minderoo. He is an advisor to Teneo
the PIF, and a Director of the Royal Commission and the PIF, and a member of the Advisory Board • President and CEO, and a Director of Chevron
for Makkah City and Holy Sites (RCMC). of Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation (SMBC), Phillips Chemical Company from 2011 to 2017;
NEOM, Salesforce.com, and the Australian • Director of the American Chemistry Council
H.E. Al-Tuwaijri also currently serves in the government’s Industry Growth Centers. from 2011 to 2017;
following capacities:
Mr. Liveris has also served in the following • Director of Junior Achievement of Southeast
• Director of the Public Pension Agency, capacities: Texas from 2011 to 2017; and
since 2020; • Senior Vice President for North America
• Chairman of the Investment and the Audit • Executive Chairman on the Board of Petrochemicals for BASF Corporation from
Committees of the RCMC Board, since 2019; DowDuPont Inc. from 2017 to 2018; and 2006 to 2011.
• C th h e a P ir I m F a B n o a o r f d t , h s e in I c n e v e 2 s 0 t 1 m 9 e ; nt Committee of • C C h h a e i m rm ic a a n l , C P o r m es p id an en y t f r a o n m d C 2 E 0 O 06 o t f o T 2 h 0 e 1 D 8. ow M the r. U Ce n l i l v a e o rs b it t y a i o n f e I d ll i a n o B i . s S . a d t e U g r r b e a e n i a n - C Fi h n a a m nc p e a i f g ro n m in
• Chairman of the Center for the National Mr. Liveris obtained a B.S. in Chemical 1979, and an MBA from Northwestern University
Transformation Program, since 2017; and Engineering from the University of Queensland in 1981.
• Chairman of the Executive Committee of the in 1975, graduating with first class honors and
NDF, since 2017. awarded the University Medal. He was awarded
honorary doctorates in Science from the
Mr. Mark A. Weinberger
H.E. Al-Tuwaijri has also served in the following University of Queensland in 2005, in Commercial
capacities: Sciences from the University of Central Michigan Director
in 2006, in Engineering from Michigan State
• Supervisor of the National Risk Unit at the University in 2015, and Laws from the Independent Non-executive Director
Royal Court from 2017 to 2021; Northwood University in 2015. Mr. Mark A. Weinberger, 60, has served as an
• Minister of Economy and Planning of independent Director of the Company since 2020.
the Kingdom; member of the Council Currently, Mr. Weinberger serves on the Board of
of Ministers; Chairman of the Standing Directors of Metlife, Inc., Johnson & Johnson, and
Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans
Committee of CEDA; Chairman of the Accelerate Acquisition Company. He is a member
Board of Directors of the National Project Director on the Board of Trustees for the United States
Management, Operation and Maintenance Independent Non-executive Director Council for International Business (USCIB), Greater
Organization (Mashroat), and the General Washington Partnership, The Concord Coalition,
Authority for Statistics; Secretary General Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans, 65, has served as an Emory University, and Case Western Reserve
of the National Center for Performance independent Director of the Company since 2018. University. He is a Strategic Advisor to the Board
Measurement “Adaa”; and Director of Saudi Currently, Ms. Elsenhans serves as a Director on of FCLTGlobal. He is a Senior Advisor to Chief
Arabian Airlines from 2017 to 2020; the Boards of Baker Hughes Company and Executives for Corporate Purpose (CECP), Stone
• Chairman of the National Center for GlaxoSmithKline plc. Canyon Industries Holdings, Tanium and Teneo.
Privatization & PPP from 2019 to 2020; He is an Executive Advisor to G100 and World 50.
Ms. Elsenhans has also served in the following Mr. Weinberger is on the CEO Advisory Council
• Chairman of the National Center for Strategic capacities: of JUST Capital Foundation, Inc. In addition,
Development Studies from 2016 to 2020;
• Director of Baker Hughes, a GE Company he sits on the Board of Directors of the National
• Director of the Royal Authority for the City from 2017 to 2019; Bureau of Economic Research (NBER), the Board
of Riyadh from 2019 to 2020; of Advisors of American Council of Capital
• Director of the National Information Center • Director of Baker Hughes Inc. from 2012 Formation, and is a member of the Economic
from 2018 to 2020; to 2017; Strategy Group, a program of the Aspen Institute.
• Director of Flowserve Corporation from Mr. Weinberger is also a member of the Advisory
• Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
2014 to 2017; Board of the Liveris Academy for Innovation and
HSBC Middle East, North Africa and Turkey;
Regional Head of Global Banking & Markets, • Director of International Paper Company Leadership at The University of Queensland.
HSBC MENA from 2010 to 2016; and from 2007 to 2012; Mr. Weinberger has also served in the following
• Managing Director and Chief Executive • President and CEO of Sunoco, Inc. from capacities:
Officer of J.P. Morgan Saudi Arabia from 2008 to 2012, becoming Chairwoman in
2007 to 2010. 2009; and • Global Chairman and CEO of Ernst & Young
(EY) from 2013 to 2019 and a Director since
H.E. Al-Tuwaijri earned a B.A. from King Faisal • Chairwoman of Sunoco Logistics Partners 2000, during which time he held a series of
Air Academy in 1986 and an MBA from King from 2008 to 2012, becoming CEO in 2010. roles;
Saud University in 1998. Ms. Elsenhans obtained a B.A. in Applied • Director on the Board of U.S. Business
Mathematics from Rice University in 1978, Roundtable from 2014 to 2019;
and an MBA from Harvard University in 1980.
106 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 109]
Corporate
governance
• Director on the Board of Catalyst, Inc. from • Chairman of HSBC Private Banking Holdings Mr. Al-Dabbagh has also served in the following
2013 to 2019; (Suisse) SA from 2010 to 2011, and HSBC capacities at Aramco:
• Co-Founder and Principal of Washington France from 2009 to 2012; • Senior Vice President Finance, Strategy
Counsel, P.C. (acquired by EY) from 1996 • Deputy Chairman of HSBC Trinkaus & & Development from 2018 to 2021;
to 2000; Burkhardt AG from 2007 to 2011, and
• Partner at Oldaker, Ryan & Leonard from a member of its Supervisory Board from • Financial Controller from 2012 to 2018;
1995 to 1996; 2006 to 2011; • Treasurer from 2010 to 2012;
• Member of the International Business Council • Group Managing Director, USA with HSBC • Manager of the Business Analysis
at the World Economic Forum; from 2004 to 2011; Department, with Strategy & Marketing
• Global Agenda Steward for Economic • Chairman of HSBC Bank plc, and HSBC Bank Analysis from 2008 to 2010;
Progress at the World Economic Forum; and Middle East Limited, in 2010; • Acting Executive Director of Marketing,
• Chairman of the International Business • Chief Executive Officer, Global Banking Supply and Joint Venture Coordination, 2008;
Leaders Advisory Council (IBLAC). Markets & Global Asset Management with • Manager of Crude Oil Sales and Marketing,
HSBC from 2006 to 2010; 2008;
Mr. Weinberger has also served the U.S. • Co-head of Corporate Investment Banking • Director of Joint Venture Development
government in the following capacities: and Markets from 2003 to 2006; and Support from 2006 to 2008;
• Member of the President’s Strategic and • Group General Manager at HSBC from • President and Chief Executive Officer
Policy Forum under President Trump in 2017; 2000 to 2004; for Saudi Petroleum International, Inc.
• Member of the President’s Infrastructure • Head of Treasury and Capital Markets Asia in New York from 2003 to 2006; and
Task Force under President Obama from Pacific for HSBC 1996 to 2002; and • Managing Director for Saudi Petroleum
2015 to 2016; • Joined HSBC as graduate trainee in 1980. Limited in Tokyo from 2001 to 2003.
• A of s s T i r s e t a an su t r S y e ( c T r a e x ta P r o y l o ic f y t ) h i e n U 20 .S 0 . 1 D a e n p d a r 2 t 0 m 0 e 2 n ; t Mr. Gulliver obtained an M.A. in Jurisprudence Mr. Al-Dabbagh has also previously served as:
• Member of the Social Security Administration from the University of Oxford in 1980. • Chairman of the Board of Saudi Aramco
Advisory Board (appointed by President Development Company (SADCO) from 2018
Clinton) in 2000; to 2021;
• Chief of Staff to U.S. President Bill Clinton’s Mr. Amin H. Nasser • Board member of the Pengerang Refining
Bipartisan Commission on Entitlement and Director, President and and Petrochemical (PRefChem) from 2018
Tax Reform in 1994; and to 2020;
Chief Executive Officer
• Chief Tax and Budget Counsel, U.S. Senate to Executive Director • Chairman of the Wisayah Investment
Senator John C. Danforth (R-Missouri) from Management Company from 2019 to 2021;
1991 to 1994. Mr. Amin H. Nasser, 63, has served as the • Board Director Sadara Chemical Company
President and CEO of the Company since 2015. from 2015 to 2018;
Mr. Weinberger obtained a B.A. in Economics Mr. Nasser has been a Director since 2010.
from Emory University in 1983. He also earned Currently, Mr. Nasser is a member of the • Board Director ARLANXEO Holding B.V.
an MBA and a J.D. from Case Western Reserve International Advisory Board of KFUPM, the from 2016 to 2018;
University in 1987, and an L.L.M. in Taxation Board of Trustees of KAUST, the World Economic • Board member of Saudi Aramco Energy
from Georgetown University Law Center in 1991. Forum’s International Business Council (IBC), Ventures LLC from 2015 to 2018;
He has an honorary doctorate from the Kogod the Massachusetts Institute of Technology • Board member of the Saudi Aramco
School of Business at American University in Presidential CEO Advisory Board, and the Entrepreneurship Center from 2014 to 2017;
Washington, DC. JP Morgan International Council.
• Board member of Aramco Trading Company
Prior to serving as President and CEO, Mr. Nasser (ATC) and the Chairman of its Board Audit
served in a number of leadership positions at Committee from 2011 to 2013;
Mr. Stuart T. Gulliver
the Company, including as Senior Vice President • Board Director Saudi Aramco Base Oil
Director of Upstream from 2007 to 2015, and VP of Company (Luberef) from 2009 to 2011;
Petroleum Engineering and Development
Independent Non-executive Director • Board Director Fujian Refining and
from 2006 to 2007.
Petrochemical Company from 2007 to 2009;
Mr. Stuart Gulliver, 63, has served as an
Mr. Nasser obtained a B.S. in Petroleum • Vice Chairman of Sinopec SenMei Products
independent Director of the Company since
Engineering from KFUPM in 1982. He also Company from 2007 to 2009;
2021. Mr. Gulliver currently serves as a Director
completed the Senior Executive Program at
on the Boards of the Saudi British Bank, Airport • Board member of Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K.
Columbia University in 2002, the Saudi Aramco
Authority Hong Kong, and Jardine Matheson. from 2007 to 2009; and
Global Business Program in 2000, and the Saudi
He serves on the international advisory council Aramco Management Development Seminar in • Board member of the Arab Petroleum
for the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. He also Washington, D.C. in 1999. Pipeline Company (Sumed) from 2000
serves as the Chairman for Maggie’s Centres. to 2001.
Mr. Gulliver has also served in the following Mr. Al-Dabbagh obtained a B.S. degree in
capacities: Mr. Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh Industrial Engineering from the University of
Toledo in 1985, and has completed a number
• Group Chief Executive Officer with HSBC Director of executive leadership programs including
Holdings plc from 2011 to 2018;
Non-executive Director the Senior Executive Programme at London
• Chairman of the Hong Kong and Shanghai Business School.
Banking Corporation from 2011 to 2018; Mr. Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh, 60, has served as
Director of the Company since 2021. Currently,
• Executive Director of HSBC Holdings plc from
Mr. Al-Dabbagh also serves as Chairman of the
2008 until 2018;
Board of Directors for Saudi Basic Industries
• Executive Director of the Hong Kong and Corporation (SABIC), and Director on the Board
Shanghai Banking Corporation from 2006 of Governors of the GCC Board Directors Institute.
to 2018;
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 107
[Page 110]
Senior Executives
Company and industry insight
Mr. Amin H. Nasser
President and CEO
Please see the Board of Directors’ biographies
subsection.
Mr. Amin H. Nasser Mr. Nasir K. Al-Naimi
President and CEO Senior Vice President, Upstream
Mr. Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani Mr. Ziad T. Al Murshed
Senior Vice President, Acting Service Line Head, Finance,
Downstream Strategy & Development and Acting CFO
Mr. Abdulaziz M. Al Gudaimi Mr. Ahmad A. Al Sa’adi
Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President,
Corporate Development Technical Services
Mr. Nabeel A. Al Mansour Mr. Nabeel A. Al-Jama'
Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President,
General Counsel and Corporate Secretary Human Resources and Corporate Services
108 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 111]
Corporate
governance
Mr. Nasir K. Al-Naimi Mr. Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani Mr. Ziad T. Al Murshed
Senior Vice President, Upstream Senior Vice President, Downstream Acting Service Line Head, Finance,
Strategy & Development and Acting
Nasir K. Al-Naimi was appointed Senior Vice Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani is Senior Vice President
Chief Financial Officer
President of Upstream effective April 1, 2021, of Downstream, where he has served since
having served as Business Line Head for the September 13, 2020.
Ziad T. Al Murshed has over 22 years of
organization since September 2020. Prior to
this, he served as Vice President, Petroleum Over the course of his career, Mr. Al Qahtani experience in the industry and became
Engineering & Development from 2016 to has demonstrated versatile leadership in Acting Service Line Head for Finance, Strategy
2020, and as Vice President, Northern Area roles spanning the corporate, upstream, and & Development effective August 6, 2021.
Oil Operations from 2012 to 2016. downstream sectors. In 2008, he was appointed Previously, Mr. Al Murshed had served as the
Chief Petroleum Engineer. In 2009, he assumed Vice President of Fuels & Lubricants effective
Mr. Al-Naimi joined the Company in 1980 the position of Executive Director and then February 2021, having served as Vice President
as an Engineering Aide in the Planning & Vice President of Petroleum Engineering & of International Operations from September
Administration Services Division before being Development, followed by roles as Vice President 2019. Mr. Al Murshed had also previously
sponsored to earn his Bachelor of Science degree of Corporate Affairs and Vice President of served as Vice President, Downstream
in Petroleum Engineering from the University of Corporate Planning. In 2016, Mr. Al Qahtani Growth & Integration from December 2018
Southern California in 1985. became a member of corporate management to September 2019.
and was named Senior Vice President of
Upon his return to the Kingdom, he joined Upstream, a position he held until assuming Prior to December 2018, Mr. Al Murshed
Petroleum Engineering’s Professional his current role in Downstream. served as Executive Director of New Business
Development Program, working in Zuluf, Development, a position to which he was
Marjan, and Manifa Production before moving Mr. Al Qahtani earned a B.S. degree in Petroleum assigned in June 2018 after being Head of that
to Safaniyah Producing Operations in 1993 as Engineering from KFUPM in 1988, followed by a organization in an acting capacity since April
Senior Operations Advisor. Master’s degree and Doctorate in the same field 2017. Prior to his appointment as Acting Head,
from the University of Southern California in New Business Development, Mr. Al Murshed
Between 1994 and 1997, Mr. Al-Naimi was 1992 and 1996, respectively. He has taken part was General Manager and Head of Transaction
Superintendent of Oil Operations for Zuluf in several leadership and management training Development with New Business Development,
Offshore Producing Operations, Northern Area programs, including the IMD Leadership Program responsible for executing joint ventures, mergers
Producing Well Services, and Abu Ali Producing in Lausanne, Switzerland, the Saudi Aramco and acquisitions, and divestitures, as well as
Operations. In 1997, he began working with Management Development Seminar in third-party and other transactions.
Crude Oil Sales & Marketing and Product Sales Washington, D.C., the Oil Economies Seminar in
& Marketing, a role he held until 2000, when he London, the Career Development and Training Mr. Al Murshed joined the Company in 1991 and
became Senior Marketing Manager of Gasoline Program in Bahrain, and the Oxford Energy started his career as an engineer in Exploration
Distillates & Sulfur Marketing. Seminar in London. and Producing. He then moved to Downstream
in 1998 and assumed several responsibilities
Mr. Al-Naimi also undertook several assignments In addition to leading the Downstream covering refining, marketing, and joint venture
as Manager of Product Sales & Marketing before organization, Mr. Al Qahtani serves as Chairman development and coordination.
becoming Manager of Marketing Services for of Aramco Trading Company, Motiva Enterprises,
Saudi Petroleum International Inc. in New York Saudi Aramco Jubail Refinery Company, and the From 2005 to 2008, he worked at Ras Tanura
in December 2001. He returned to the Kingdom King Salman Energy City Development Company. Refinery, where he was Superintendent of
in 2003 initially as Manager of the Marine He is also a Board member of S-Oil Corporation, operations. In 2008, Mr. Al Murshed moved to
Department, and later as Manager, Mechanical as well as Pengerang Refining Company Sdn. Corporate Planning, where he was responsible
Services Shops in 2004. Bhd. and Pengerang Petrochemical Sdn. Bhd. for the Company’s five-year business plan.
In 2007, he was named Manager, Terminals, and (collectively known as PRefChem). From 2010 to 2012, he served as Manager of the
took on several acting assignments as Executive Yanbu’ NGL Fractionation Department. In 2012,
Director of Industrial Services. In 2009, he was he became Manager of Business Analysis in
made General Manager of Southern Area Corporate Planning, later becoming the Director
Producing, before being elevated to Executive of Economic & Energy Analysis.
Director, Pipelines, Distribution & Terminals in 2010.
From 2013 to 2015, he was the Director of
Mr. Al-Naimi was appointed as Chairman of the Strategic Planning.
Board of Directors of Saudi Aramco Upstream
Mr. Al Murshed holds a B.S. degree in Chemical
Technology Company LLC (SAUTC) in 2021,
Engineering from Arizona State University, and
having held the position of Vice Chairman since
an MBA from the Sloan School of Management
2016. Previously, he was a Board member of
at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He
Saudi Aramco Energy Ventures, Saudi Aramco
is also a graduate of the General Management
Mobil Refinery Company Limited, and the
Program at Harvard Business School.
Arabian Drilling Company.
Mr. Al Murshed was appointed to the Board of
Directors of S-Oil as a Director in June 2019. He is
also a Board member of SABIC, and Chairman of
the Wisayah Global Investment Company.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 109
[Page 112]
Senior Executives continued
Mr. Abdulaziz M. Al Gudaimi Mr. Ahmad A. Al Sa’adi Mr. Nabeel A. Al Mansour
Senior Vice President, Corporate Senior Vice President, Technical Services Senior Vice President, General Counsel
Development and Corporate Secretary
Ahmad A. Al Sa’adi was appointed Senior Vice
Abdulaziz M. Al Gudaimi was appointed President of Technical Services effective January Nabeel A. Al Mansour was appointed to the
Senior Vice President of Corporate Development 2016, after previously serving as the acting position of General Counsel and Corporate
effective September 13, 2020. Prior to this, he Service Line Head for the organization. Secretary in May 2016. In 2017, Mr. Al Mansour
was Senior Vice President of Downstream. Earlier was also appointed as Senior Vice President.
In his role, Mr. Al Sa’adi heads Aramco’s
to his appointment in Downstream, he served as
the Vice President of Power Systems. Engineering Services, Project Management, Mr. Al Mansour began his career with the
Information Technology, and Procurement & Company in 1988 as a participant in the College
Previously, Mr. Al Gudaimi held similar leadership Supply Chain Management. He also oversees Degree Program for Non-Employees, earning a
positions with Chemicals, Corporate Planning, the direction of corporate environmental and B.S. degree in Systems Engineering from KFUPM
and New Business Development. Prior to this, occupational health policies and provides in 1990.
he was Vice President for Northern Area Oil guidance to management as to the impact of
Operations (NAOO). environmental trends. Following participation in the Information
Technology Professional Development Program
Mr. Al Gudaimi began working for SAMAREC In July 2010, Mr. Al Sa’adi became Vice President, and assignments with Engineering Services,
in 1983 at the Riyadh Refinery after graduating Gas Operations, headquartered in ‘Udhailiyah, he was selected in 1996 for the Company’s
from KFUPM with a B.S. degree in Petroleum and led a complex organization that consisted Out-of-Kingdom Law Degree Program, through
Engineering. He later obtained a M.S. degree of seven gas processing centers. which he earned his Juris Doctor degree with
in Business Administration from Massachusetts honors in Law from Oklahoma City University
Prior to this, he was Vice President of Pipelines,
Institute of Technology’s Sloan School of in the U.S.
Distribution & Terminals, responsible for the
Management in 2001.
transportation of oil, gas, and domestic fuel After completion of the bar exam and working
From April 2004 to June 2006, Mr. Al Gudaimi distribution through bulk plants and air fueling for a leading U.S. law firm in New York, Mr.
was President & CEO of Aramco Gulf Operations units, and the Kingdom’s crude exports through Al Mansour returned to the Kingdom in 2000
Company Ltd. (AGOC) in Al-Khafji. terminals. and joined the Saudi Aramco Law organization,
where he held numerous positions of increasing
Formerly, Mr. Al Gudaimi was Chairman of the Mr. Al Sa’adi held the position of Chief Engineer scope and responsibility. He led the Aramco legal
Board of Directors for Aramco Trading Company of Saudi Aramco, and prior to that he was team that supported the development of Sadara
(ATC), Motiva Enterprises LLC (Motiva), and President & CEO of the Aramco Gulf Operations Chemicals, and he led a number of legal teams
Pengerang Refining Company Sdn. Bhd. and Company Ltd. (AGOC), and Chairman of the in connection with oil and gas concessions
Pengerang Petrochemical Sdn. Bhd. (collectively Joint Executive Committee of Al-Khafji Joint and other investment agreements, including
known as PRefChem). He also served as a Operations (KJO), providing policy and direction participating in negotiations with various
Board Director for S-Oil Corporation and still is to KJO. international oil companies (IOCs) for significant
Chairman of the Board for ARLANXEO, Saudi He has served professionally and in a supervisory investments in Saudi Arabia’s non-associated gas
Aramco Development Company (SADCO), and capacity domestically and internationally over a sector. He also served as Corporate Secretary to
Saudi Aramco Total Refining & Petrochemical multitude of engineering, refining, and project a number of joint venture companies established
Company (SATORP), as well as a Board Director of management fields. by Aramco and IOCs.
the Royal Commission for Jubail & Yanbu (RCJY).
Mr. Al Sa’adi joined the Company in 1981 after Mr. Al Mansour served as Associate General
earning a B.S. degree in Chemical Engineering Counsel from April 2011 to February 2014,
from KFUPM. championing a multi-year strategic program
in the Law organization, which led to
Mr. Al Sa’adi is the Chairman of the Boards of transforming it into a best-in-class international
the Sadara Chemical Company, Saudi Aramco legal organization. He was also responsible for
Mobil Refinery (SAMREF), and the International overseeing multiple legal practice areas including
Maritime Industries Company (IMIC). litigation, international trade, and project
development and finance.
In February 2014, he was appointed Executive
Director of Procurement & Supply Chain
Management, overseeing the corporate supply
chain, contracting activities, and the Company’s
global materials logistics operations. He was
named Vice President of that organization in May
2015 and then, in October 2015, was appointed
Deputy General Counsel in Law.
110 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 113]
Corporate
governance
Mr. Nabeel A. Al-Jama'
Senior Vice President, Human Resources
and Corporate Services
Nabeel A. Al-Jama’ was appointed Senior Vice
President of Human Resources and Corporate
Services (HR&CS) effective July 1, 2020, following
his service as Vice President of Corporate Affairs,
a position he held since 2018.
He was previously Vice President of Human
Resources from November 2017, after serving
in the Office of the Minister of Energy, Industry
and Mineral Resources since June 2016.
Mr. Al-Jama’ had previously been appointed Vice
President, Pipelines, Distribution & Terminals in
May 2015.
Prior to that, Mr. Al-Jama’ had been Executive
Director, Industrial Services, from January 2012
to January 2015.
He started with the Company in 1980 in the
Home Ownership Division, after which he joined
the Company’s College Degree Program, earning
a B.S. degree in 1985 and then an M.S. degree in
1998, both in Community & Regional Planning
from KFUPM.
Mr. Al-Jama’ returned to the Home Ownership
Division in 1985, where he became Supervisor of
the Home Ownership Unit in 1993 after serving
in a variety of administrative roles.
In 1998, Mr. Al-Jama’ became Director of Saudi
Aramco Built Government Schools before taking
on the role of Administrator, Home Ownership
& Community Development, in September 2000.
In February 2002, he became Manager, Central
Community Services.
During that time, he completed several
assignments in diverse organizations within
Employee Relations & Training and the Central
Community Services Department, as well
as roles as acting General Manager of Medical
Operations, acting Personnel Director, and acting
Executive Director, Community, Buildings &
Office Services.
Mr. Al-Jama’ was elevated to General Manager,
Training & Career Development, in 2006 before
being assigned acting Executive Director,
Community Services, in 2008. He was permanently
assigned as Executive Director, Community
Services, in 2009, and in 2012, he moved to
Industrial Services. In February 2015, Mr. Al-Jama’
transferred to Pipelines, Distribution & Terminals.
Mr. Al-Jama is the Chairman of the Board for
the Johns Hopkins Aramco Healthcare Company
(JHAH). Until April 2021, he was a Board member
of Saudi Aramco Asia Company.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 111
[Page 114]
Board structure
Overseeing our growth and transition
The Company is supervised by a Board Board Committees Separate minutes are prepared for
consisting of 11 Directors. The Board each Committee meeting. The primary
Currently, the Board has four standing
oversees the management of the responsibilities of each Committee
committees: Audit, Risk and HSE,
Company and is vested with all authority are summarized below in each of
Nomination, and Compensation.
to manage the business of the Company the respective committee reports or
Each Committee meets regularly
and supervise its affairs. The Board has statements, as applicable. Additionally,
throughout the year, reports its actions
the power to form any number of each Board Committee is chaired by an
and recommendations to the Board, and
committees it deems necessary for independent Director.
receives reports from management. All
effective governance, oversight, and
Board Committees have their respective
operations of the Company, or to delegate
charters that identify each Committee’s
all or some of its authorities to any of
roles, powers, and responsibilities.
the committees, as it deems appropriate.
The Capital Market Law, Companies Law
and its implementing regulations, and the
Bylaws along with the Company’s internal
governance regulations and policies,
outline the duties and responsibilities Board Committees
of the Board.
Each of the Board’s 11 Directors was Board
elected at the Company’s AGM convened
on July 1, 2021, except for the President
and Chief Executive Officer who is
automatically appointed as a member of Audit Risk and HSE Nomination Compensation
the Board, pursuant to the Bylaws. Each Committee Committee Committee Committee
Director was elected for a term of three
years until June 30, 2024, or until his or her
replacement is duly elected. There is no
limit on the number of terms that a Director
may serve on the Board. Further, on July 1,
2021, H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi and Sir
Mark Moody-Stuart departed from the
Board and its Committees. On August 5,
2021, the membership of the Audit
Ms. Lynn Laverty Mr. Peter L. Cella, Mr. Andrew Mr. Mark A.
Committee, Risk and HSE Committee,
Elsenhans, Chair Chair N. Liveris, Chair Weinberger, Chair
Nomination Committee, and Compensation
Committee were reconstituted.
Read more Read more Read more Read more
on page 117 on page 119 on page 120 on page 121
112 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
Board
Audit Risk and HSE Nomination Compensation
Committee Committee Committee Committee
Ms. Lynn Laverty Mr. Peter L. Cella, Mr. Andrew Mr. Mark A.
Elsenhans, Chair Chair N. Liveris, Chair Weinberger, Chair
Read more Read more Read more Read more
on page 117 on page 119 on page 120 on page 121
[Page 115]
Corporate
governance
Independence of each Director based upon the There are no existing conflicts of interest
recommendation of the Nomination between any duties of any Director
The Company’s Bylaws set forth
Committee and in accordance with toward the Company and the Director’s
requirements concerning the composition
applicable laws and regulations. Applying private interests and/or other duties.
of its Board, including that the number of
these standards, the Board has determined
independent Directors must satisfy the
that the following five Board members The business address of each Director is
minimum requirements of applicable
are independent Directors: Mr. Liveris, the registered address of the Company.
laws and regulations in the Kingdom.
Ms. Elsenhans, Mr. Cella, Mr. Weinberger,
Annually, the Board makes an affirmative
and Mr. Gulliver.
determination regarding the independence
Overview of the Board1
Independence Tenure
1
2
3
1
5 Average tenure
5 years
5
Non-executive
Director
0-2 years
Independent
3-4 years
Non-executive
5
Director 5-10 years
Executive Director 11+ years
Country of nationality Age
1
2 2
1
Average age
6 62 years
3 3
Saudi Arabia 50-55 4
USA 56-60
UK 61-65
Australia 66+
1. All Board statistics are as of March 18, 2022.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 113
[Page 116]
Board structure continued
Board diversity and composition to express independent thought, listed company. In addition, candidates
understanding of the Company’s business must have demonstrated an ability to
The Board values diversity of talent, skills,
and other factors that the Nomination think strategically and make decisions
viewpoints and experience, and believes
Committee determines are pertinent in with a forward-looking focus, as well
that Board diversity of all types enhances
light of the current needs of the Board. as the ability to assimilate relevant
the performance of the Board and provides
The Nomination Committee also considers information on a broad range of complex
significant benefits to the Company.
each Director’s key skills and experience topics. Moreover, candidates must have
Accordingly, the Nomination Committee
in light of the Company’s strategy. the ability to devote the time necessary
considers the diversity of the Board with
to meet a Director’s responsibilities.
respect to these categories when reviewing
When identifying prospective candidates
its composition, as well as when
for the Board, the Nomination Committee The following table summarizes
nominating new Director candidates.
considers the criteria described above and certain key characteristics of the
seeks individuals with successful Company’s businesses and the associated
In its assessment of the Board’s
leadership experience who have achieved qualifications, skills and experience that
composition, the Nomination Committee
prominence in their primary fields, and the Nomination Committee believes
also considers each Director’s professional
whose background demonstrates an should be represented on the Board.
experience, integrity, honesty, judgment,
understanding of business affairs as well
independence, accountability, willingness
as the complexities of a large, publicly
Business characteristics Qualifications, skills and experience
• The Company is a complex, globally integrated energy and • Energy industry experience.
chemicals company with products sold around the world.
• Broad international exposure.
• The Company’s businesses are impacted by regulatory • Government and international trade experience.
requirements and policies of various governmental entities
around the world.
• The Company’s business is multifaceted and includes • Expertise in audit, tax and global finance.
operations, transactions and partnerships in many jurisdictions.
• Global business leadership, knowledge and experience.
• Technology and innovation add significant value to the • Engineering, technology, manufacturing and/or other technical
Company’s operations. knowledge and experience.
• The Company’s customers are diverse and located in many • Diversity of race, ethnicity, gender, cultural background or
countries around the world. professional experience.
• Demand for many of the Company’s products is directly tied to • Experience in the evaluation of global economic conditions.
global economic conditions and is heavily influenced by global
• Knowledge of key global markets, including commodity,
commodity, energy, construction, and transportation sectors.
energy, and transportation sectors.
• The Board’s responsibilities include understanding and • Risk oversight/management expertise.
overseeing the various risks facing the Company and
• Executive and/or other significant leadership experience.
ensuring that appropriate policies and procedures are
in place to effectively manage these risks.
• Environmental performance and sustainable practices are • Environmental and sustainability expertise.
increasingly critical drivers of the Company’s strategic plans
• Regulatory and/or compliance experience.
for long-term value creation.
114 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 117]
Corporate
governance
Director skills and experience
Financial experience Risk management experience
Brings valuable experience Aids the Board in its risk
to the Board, including oversight and can effectively
11 11
oversight of financial reporting identify, prioritize, and manage
and internal controls. a broad spectrum of risks.
Energy and chemicals industry experience Global business leadership experience
Demonstrates a practical Provides perspective on diverse
understanding of the energy business environments, customers, 8
4
industry and provides valuable and supply chains associated
perspective on issues specific with the Company’s global
to the Company’s business. business and strategy.
Regulatory, legal, public policy, and government experience Executive experience
Supports the Board in assessing Possesses a deep understanding
and responding to evolving legal of organizations and strategy to
5 8
and regulatory environments. assist the Board in oversight of
the Company’s global operations
and strategic planning.
Technology, innovation, and scientific experience
Assists the Board in
overseeing the Company’s
3
leadership in technological
change and innovation.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 115
[Page 118]
Board structure continued
Board evaluations
The Board conducts an annual self-assessment, alternating between conducting its own assessment and engaging with a third-party
consultant to conduct the assessment at least once every three years. Director responses and feedback are reviewed and tracked over
time to identify trends and determine appropriate items of focus to enhance the Board’s performance. In 2021, the Board conducted
its self-evaluation with the Nomination Committee overseeing the process and communication of results to the Board.
2021 Board meeting attendance
In 2021 there were seven Board meetings. There were no meeting attendances by proxy during 2021. Below is a record of attendance
at these meetings for each Board member.
Members Mar 18 Mar 31 May 3 Aug 51 & 6 Oct 28 Nov 15 Dec 19 & 20
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan, Chairman • • • • – • •
H.E. Dr. Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf, Deputy Chairman • • • • • • •
H.E. Mohammed A. Al-Jadaan • • • • • • •
H.E. Mohammad M. Al-Tuwaijri • • • • • – •
Mr. Andrew N. Liveris • • • • • • •
Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans • • • • • • •
Mr. Peter L. Cella • • • • • • •
Mr. Mark A. Weinberger • • • • • • •
Mr. Stuart T. Gulliver2 n/a n/a n/a • • • •
Mr. Amin H. Nasser • • • • • • •
Mr. Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh3 n/a n/a n/a • • • •
H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi4 • • • n/a n/a n/a n/a
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart5 • • • n/a n/a n/a n/a
1. The Board held an organizational meeting on August 5, 2021, to reconstitute the Board Committees.
2. Mr. Stuart T. Gulliver was elected to the Board on July 1, 2021.
3. Mr. Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh was elected to the Board on July 1, 2021.
4. H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi departed from the Board and its Committees on July 1, 2021.
5. Sir Mark Moody-Stuart departed from the Board and its Committees on July 1, 2021.
Annual General Meeting 10-year period ending March 31, 2031, The Company’s shareholders play an
of Shareholders unless replaced earlier by the integral role in the Company’s overall
shareholders, and determination of their governance framework. Pursuant to the
On July 1, 2021, the Company held an
fees for the same 10-year period; (iii) the CMA’s Corporate Governance Regulations,
AGM. The meeting was held virtually.
election of the members of the Board for members of the Board are required to
All of the then serving Board members
the next term, which begins on July 1, attend the Company’s General Assembly
attended the AGM and the following
2021, for a period of three years ending meetings. At such meetings, shareholders
items were voted upon, and approved
on June 30, 2024; and (iv) approval of can provide their suggestions and remarks
by, the shareholders: (i) the 2020 Board of
the Company’s Competition Standards to the members of the Board.
Directors’ Report; (ii) the appointment of
in accordance with Article 46(3) of the
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) to be the
Capital Market Authority’s (CMA)
external auditor for the Company for the
Corporate Governance Regulations.
116 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 119]
Audit Committee report Corporate
governance
2021 Audit Committee meeting attendance
Members Mar 17 May 2 Aug 5 Oct 27
Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans, Chair • • • •
H.E. Mohammed A. Al-Jadaan • • • •
Mr. Peter L. Cella • • • •
Mr. Mark A. Weinberger • • • •
Mr. Stuart T. Gulliver1 n/a n/a • •
H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi2 • • n/a n/a
1. The membership of the Audit Committee was reconstituted on August 5, 2021, to include Mr. Stuart T. Gulliver.
2. H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi departed from the Board and its Committees on July 1, 2021.
The primary role of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee met four times The Audit Committee engages with:
is to monitor the Company’s affairs and in 2021. At the Company’s 2021 AGM
assist the Board and its Directors with held on July 1, 2021, Mr. Stuart T. Gulliver • Management for the preparation and
oversight of the financial reporting and was elected to the Board. In August, accuracy of the Company’s consolidated
disclosure process, including oversight of: Mr. Gulliver was appointed as a member financial statements;
of the Audit Committee due to his
• Management for the establishment
• The integrity, effectiveness and financial expertise.
of effective internal controls and
accuracy of the Company’s consolidated
procedures to ensure the Company’s
financial statements and reports, and To enable the Audit Committee to fulfill its
compliance with accounting standards,
the performance, soundness and role, duties and objectives, the relevant key
financial reporting procedures and
effectiveness of the Company’s internal Company stakeholders and members of
applicable laws and regulations;
controls, audit, financial reporting, and management participated in each of the
financial risk management systems; Audit Committee meetings held in 2021 • The General Auditor for support in
along with the Company’s external auditor. discharging the Audit Committee’s
• The qualifications and performance
responsibilities with respect to risk
of the Company’s internal auditor;
Key stakeholders and various members of management, financial reporting
• The qualifications, independence, management presented and provided input processes, systems of internal control,
and performance of the Company’s to the Audit Committee on certain matters and compliance with legal and
independent external auditor; and including the integrity, effectiveness and regulatory requirements; and
accuracy of the Company’s consolidated
• The Company’s compliance with • The external auditor in connection with
financial statements and reports, and the
legal and regulatory requirements. the external auditor’s annual audit and
performance, soundness, and effectiveness
quarterly review, as applicable, of the
of the Company’s internal controls, audit,
consolidated financial statements.
financial reporting and financial risk
management.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 117
[Page 120]
Audit Committee report continued
Based on input and presentations from The Company’s General Auditor was In 2020, when recommending the
relevant key stakeholders and members present at each of the Audit Committee appointment of PwC as the external
of management, the Audit Committee meetings held in 2021. As part of his auditor for 2021, the Audit Committee
endorsed several items in 2021 for Board presentations to the Audit Committee, authorized management to engage
approval, including: the General Auditor reported on the PwC to perform certain limited other
Company’s internal auditing activities services, to ensure they, as external
• The 2020 Annual Report; undertaken during the year. As part auditor, remain independent under
of the Audit Committee’s review of the Saudi Organization for Chartered
• The 2020 consolidated audited financial
the 2022 global internal audit plan, the and Professional Accountants (SOCPA)
statements;
Audit Committee ensured that the plan is standards and under guidance issued
• The 2021 condensed consolidated aligned with the key risks of the business. by the International Federation of
interim (quarterly) financial reports; and Accountants. The principal limited other
Financial reporting and external audit services provided by the external auditor
• The recommendation for the continued
Two of the Audit Committee’s key in 2021 are related to tax compliance.
appointment of the Company’s external
responsibilities are to monitor the integrity
auditor for the fiscal year 2022.
of the financial statements and to assess At the 2021 AGM, the Company’s
the effectiveness of the external auditor. shareholders appointed PwC for the
Further, the Audit Committee evaluated
10-year period from 2021-2030 up to
and received reports on various key issues
The Audit Committee has assessed that and including the first quarter of 2031
including:
appropriate accounting policies have and until reappointed or replaced by
• A summary of the Company’s internal been adopted throughout the accounting the shareholders. The Audit Committee
auditing activities in 2020, covering period and that management has made approved the engagement letter with PwC,
areas such as assurance activities, reasonable estimates and judgments over setting out the terms and conditions for its
advisory engagements, fraud risk the recognition, measurement, and service in 2021. At the last meeting of 2021,
management, and certain key initiatives presentation of the financial results. the Audit Committee approved the terms
taken during the year; and conditions for PwC’s service in 2022.
At each of the Audit Committee’s
• Quarterly reports on the Company’s meetings in 2021 there were extensive If PwC is reappointed, the current
ongoing internal auditing activities reports and discussions with the external global engagement audit partner will
in 2021; auditor and members of management continue to act until the conclusion of
regarding the financial statements, the fiscal year-end 2023 audit, subject to
• A review of the Company’s financial
including detailed analysis of the financial satisfactory performance and continued
risk management activities;
performance and changes in the financial engagement of PwC, as external auditor.
• The activities of the Company’s position of the Company, the process to
Conflict of Interest and Business prepare the final financial statements Internal controls
Ethics Committee; and the related independent review by The Audit Committee is responsible for
the external auditor for the first, second reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness
• The financial performance in 2020 of
and third quarters of the year. At the of the Company’s internal control and
the investments to fund the Company’s
final meeting of the fiscal year, held on financial risk management systems.
benefit plans;
October 27, 2021, the external auditor During the course of the year, the
• A report on significant litigation matters; presented to the Audit Committee Audit Committee has considered various
members the 2021 External Audit Plan material controls, including financial,
• A review of related party transactions;
reviewing the process they would operational and compliance controls,
• A report on the Company’s financing undertake to complete the audit of the and the Audit Committee is of the opinion
strategy; 2021 annual financial statements. Also, that the Company’s internal and financial
at this meeting, the Audit Committee control systems and risk management
• A report on the Company’s enterprise
reviewed the external auditor’s systems are effective and adequate.
tax risk management framework;
performance and independence for 2021
• A report on the existing governance and did not identify any deficiencies.
frameworks of the Company’s
subsidiaries and affiliates;
• A report on managing enterprise-wide
regulatory compliance risks through
a global compliance framework; and
• The Company’s 2022 global internal
audit plan, including the related plan
development approach and process.
118 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 121]
Risk and HSE Committee report Corporate
governance
2021 Risk and HSE Committee meeting attendance
Members Mar 17 May 2 Aug 5 Oct 27
Mr. Peter L. Cella, Chair • • • •
H.E. Mohammad M. Al-Tuwaijri • • • •
Mr. Stuart T. Gulliver1 n/a n/a • •
Mr. Amin H. Nasser • • • •
Mr. Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh1 n/a n/a • •
H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi2 • • n/a n/a
Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans3 • • n/a n/a
1. The membership of the Risk & HSE Committee was reconstituted on August 5, 2021, to include Mr. Stuart T. Gulliver and Mr. Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh.
2. H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi departed from the Board and its Committees on July 1, 2021.
3. Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans is no longer a member of the Risk and HSE Committee as of August 5, 2021.
The primary role of the Risk and HSE Further, in 2021 the Risk and HSE The Risk and HSE Committee continues to
Committee is to monitor the Company’s Committee received updates on the support the Board and the Company by
overall management of risk and its Company’s enterprise risk management carrying out its duties and responsibilities
activities relating to health, safety and (ERM) framework, the Company’s that include the following:
the environment (HSE), and to assist the Operational Excellence (OE) Program,
Board with: and the Company’s sustainability and • Reviewing implementation of strategies
ESG reporting framework. and policies for operational, strategic,
• Leadership, direction, and oversight and ESG-related risk management, and
with respect to the Company’s risk The Risk and HSE Committee also received the adequacy and effectiveness of the
appetite, risk tolerance, risk framework, updates on: (i) certain security-related Company's enterprise risk management
and risk strategy; incidents that took place at the Jazan Bulk framework;
Plant, and the Company’s response to the
• Governance and management of • Reviewing the Company’s risk appetite;
incidents; and, (ii) an assessment being
strategic, operational, sustainability, and
conducted after certain safety incidents • Reviewing the Company’s operational,
environmental, social and governance
at the PRefChem facility in Malaysia in strategic, and ESG-related risks;
(ESG) related risks; and
2019 and 2020.
• Reporting on major strategic risk
• Assisting the Board and the Audit
exposures and recommending steps to
Committee, to foster a culture within In addition, the Risk and HSE Committee
manage these risks to the Board; and
the Company that emphasizes and reviewed the Company’s 2020 performance
demonstrates the benefits of risk with respect to safety incidents and with • Reviewing the effectiveness of the
management. respect to certain health, safety, and Company’s policies, programs and
environmental metrics and targets. The practices with respect to safety, health,
The Risk and HSE Committee held four Risk and HSE Committee also reviewed environment, social, and community
meetings in 2021. During the year, it the Company’s quarterly performance for relations issues, and making such
received updates from Management on the first three quarters in 2021 with respect recommendations to the Board with
routine assessments and reviews that were to HSE metrics and targets, along with respect thereto as may be advisable.
conducted regarding several corporate reviewing proposed HSE corporate key
risks that the Company is actively performance indicator metrics and targets The Risk and HSE Committee also carries
managing, including those relating to the for 2022. out the functions and the duties and
pandemic, climate change, cyberattack, responsibilities of the Risk Management
major non-industrial incidents, major Committee described in the CMA’s
industrial incidents, compliance and Corporate Governance Regulations.
conduct, and mergers and acquisitions.
The Risk and HSE Committee also received
updates on certain key health, safety and
environmental matters that impact or that
could potentially impact the Company.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 119
[Page 122]
Nomination Committee statement
2021 Nomination Committee meeting attendance
Members Mar 17 Dec 19
Mr. Andrew N. Liveris, Chair • •
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan • •
H.E. Dr. Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf • •
H.E. Mohammad M. Al-Tuwaijri • •
Mr. Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh1 n/a •
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart2 • n/a
1. The membership of the Nomination Committee was reconstituted on August 5, 2021, to include Mr. Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh.
2. Sir Mark Moody-Stuart departed from the Board and its Committees on July 1, 2021.
The primary role of the Nomination Nomination Committee reviewed and With respect to the means used by
Committee is to lead the process of endorsed a proposed process for the the Board to assess its performance
nominating and evaluating members 2021 Board and Board Committees' and the performance of its members,
of the Company’s Board and to ensure self-assessment process. The Nomination the Nomination Committee oversaw
the effectiveness of the Board and the Committee also considered individuals the Board’s 2021 self-assessment process
individual Directors. The Nomination for election as Directors at the Company’s which was conducted without third-party
Committee also evaluates and makes 2021 Annual Ordinary General Assembly participation, following the Board’s
recommendations with respect to the meeting and endorsed a list of candidates. 2020 engagement with a third-party
structure of the Board and composition The Nomination Committee subsequently consultant. The self-assessment primarily
of the Board’s Committees. Further, reviewed and endorsed for the Board’s consisted of responding to the same
the Nomination Committee evaluates approval competition standards questionnaire as used in the 2020
and recommends to the Board the applicable to the Directors, as required engagement and comparing the
appointments of individuals (other than by the CMA’s Corporate Governance results to determine any trends in
Directors) as Company officers, including Regulations. Finally, the Nomination the performance of the Board and
those proposed to hold the title of vice Committee endorsed for the Board’s its Committees.
president or higher. The Nomination approval the appointment of individuals
Committee also proposes and makes to fill designated Vice President and
recommendations to the Board with Senior Vice President roles within
respect to the Company’s relevant the Company.
corporate governance practices and
procedures. In December 2021, the Nomination
Committee reviewed the proposed 2021
The Nomination Committee held two self-assessment process for the Board.
meetings in 2021. In March 2021, the In addition, the Nomination Committee
Nomination Committee verified the reviewed the workshops conducted for
following with respect to the Directors the Directors in 2021, and reviewed and
that were Board members at that time: endorsed proposed workshops for the
(i) the independence of five independent Directors in 2022. Further, the Nomination
Directors; and (ii) the absence of any Committee reviewed the Company’s
conflicts of interest. In addition, the succession planning process for Board
members.
120 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 123]
Compensation Committee statement Corporate
governance
2021 Compensation Committee meeting attendance
Members Mar 17 May 2 Dec 19
Mr. Mark A. Weinberger, Chair1 • • •
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan • • •
H.E. Mohammed A. Al-Jadaan • • •
Mr. Andrew N. Liveris • • •
Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans2 n/a n/a •
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, Chair3 • • n/a
1. Mr. Mark A. Weinberger was appointed as Chair to the Compensation Committee on August 5, 2021.
2. The membership of the Compensation Committee was reconstituted on August 5, 2021, to include Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans.
3. Sir Mark Moody-Stuart departed from the Board and its Committees on July 1, 2021.
The primary role of the Compensation As part of its regular schedule of The Compensation Committee made
Committee is to oversee the Company’s activities, the Compensation Committee recommendations to the Board on the
policy on compensation and its discussed and evaluated remuneration annual Company-wide compensation
implementation. The Compensation policies and decisions applicable to the plan and associated budget, and
Committee reviews the annual individual Company’s key management personnel, approved Director and Senior Executive
compensation plans for Directors and including Directors and Senior Executives. compensation within the budget
Senior Executives. The Compensation Of note, following a review of Directors’ approved by the Board. The
Committee also reviews and approves fees amongst oil and gas peers, the Compensation Committee also reviewed
the annual compensation plans of other Compensation Committee approved and endorsed the performance targets for
Company executives. that the underlying retainer fee remain use in variable pay plans and determined
unchanged, but to better align with the overall performance of the Company
The Compensation Committee held three market practice, recommended the for compensation purposes.
meetings in 2021. Following the AGM in introduction of premium payments to
July 2021, Sir Mark Moody-Stuart departed those Directors chairing committees,
from the Board and its Committees with thereby recognizing the additional
Mr. Mark A. Weinberger replacing him as commitment. Premium payments were
Chair of the Compensation Committee, subsequently approved at 20% of the
and Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans joining retainer fee for the Chairman of the
the Compensation Committee. Board, and 10% for all other Board
Committee Chairs.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 121
[Page 124]
Compensation policy
The Company has a shareholder-approved policy which aims to ensure that its Directors and Executives are paid in a manner that
promotes sustainable performance and is in the long-term interest of the Company and its shareholders, while attracting, retaining,
and motivating the talent it requires to achieve its business goals.
Board remuneration
Table 1 below sets out the remuneration of Board members consistent with the Company’s compensation policy and Bylaws.
Table 1: 2021 Board remuneration
Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration
All amounts in SAR
tnuoma
cificepS
gnidnetta
rof
ecnawollA
sgniteem
draoB
gnidnetta
rof
ecnawolla
latoT
sgniteem
eettimmoc
stifeneb
dnik-nI
,lacinhcet
rof noitarenumeR
krow
evitatlusnoc
dna
laireganam
,namriahC
eht
fo noitarenumeR
,yraterceS
ro
rotceriD
gniganaM rebmem
a
fi
latoT
stiforp
eht fo
egatnecreP
noitarenumer
cidoireP
snalp
evitnecni
mret-trohS
snalp
evitnecni
mret-gnoL
)eulav(
serahs
detnarG
latoT
drawa
ecivres-fo-dnE
tnuoma
etagerggA
ecnawolla
sesnepxE
Compensation and other interests
Independent Directors
Mr. Andrew N. Liveris 1,560,739 – – 5,006 – – 1,565,745 – – – – – – – 1,565,745 –
Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans 1,560,739 – – 5,006 – – 1,565,745 – – – – – – – 1,565,745 –
Mr. Peter L. Cella 1,560,739 – – 5,006 – – 1,565,745 – – – – – – – 1,565,745 –
Mr. Mark A. Weinberger 1,560,739 – – 5,006 – – 1,565,745 – – – – – – – 1,565,745 –
Mr. Stuart T. Gulliver1 1,125,000 – – 2,503 – – 1,127,503 – – – – – – – 1,127,503 –
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart2 323,239 – – 2,503 – – 325,742 – – – – – – – 325,742 –
Total 7,691,195 – – 25,030 – – 7,716,225 – – – – – – – 7,716,225 –
Non-executive Directors
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan 1,673,239 – – 5,344 – – 1,678,583 – – – – – – – 1,678,583 –
H.E. Dr. Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf 1,448,239 – – 5,344 – – 1,453,583 – – – – – – – 1,453,583 –
H.E. Mohammed A. Al-Jadaan 1,448,239 – – 5,344 – – 1,453,583 – – – – – – – 1,453,583 –
H.E. Mohammad M. Al-Tuwaijri 1,448,239 – – 5,344 – – 1,453,583 – – – – – – – 1,453,583 –
Mr. Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh3 1,031,250 – – 777 – – 1,032,027 – – – – – – – 1,032,027 –
H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi4 323,239 – – 38,106 – – 361,345 – – – – – – – 361,345 9,750
Total 7,372,445 – – 60,259 – – 7,432,704 – – – – – – – 7,432,704 9,750
Executive Directors
Mr. Amin H. Nasser – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Total – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Total 15,063,640 – – 85,289 – – 15,148,929 – – – – – – –15,148,929 9,750
1. Mr. Stuart T. Gulliver was elected as a member of the Board on July 1, 2021.
2. Sir Mark Moody-Stuart departed from the Board and its Committees on July 1, 2021.
3. Mr. Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh was elected as a member of the Board on July 1, 2021.
4. H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi departed from the Board and its Committees on July 1, 2021.
In accordance with the Company’s Bylaws, the Compensation Committee of the Board sets Director remuneration, without exceeding
SAR 1.8 million for each member per year. Non-executive/independent members of the Board receive an annual fixed fee, a premium
payment for those Directors chairing committees, reimbursement of any travel expenses, and health, welfare, and accommodation
benefits for their service. Committee members receive no additional remuneration for their service on Board Committees, other than
in the capacity as Chair of any committee. Executive members of the Board are not remunerated for their service as Directors.
122 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 125]
Senior Executives remuneration
Table 2 sets out the aggregated remuneration paid to the Company’s six highest paid Senior Executives, inclusive of the CEO and CFO
positions.
Table 2: Total remuneration paid to the six highest paid executives including CEO and CFO
Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration
All amounts
in SAR
seiralaS
secnawollA
stifeneb
dnik-nI latoT
noitarenumer
cidoireP stiforP
evitnecni
mret-trohS
snalp
evitnecni
mret-gnoL
snalp
)eulav(
serahs
detnarG latoT
drawa
ecivres-fo-dnE
rof
noitarenumer
latoT
yna
fi
,sevitucexE
draoB
tnuoma
etagerggA
Corporate
governance
Total 13,484,100 6,758,625 2,642,363 22,885,088 – – 20,961,515 21,490,477 – 42,451,992 24,004,488 – 89,341,568
The Company’s compensation framework • With respect to variable remuneration, • Besides pension, savings plan and
for its Senior Executives is designed to the Company offers variable medical services, benefits are primarily
provide a balanced compensation compensation that is market-aligned housing-related allowances or
package that includes base pay, variable and subject to the fulfillment of equivalent, and transportation-related
pay and benefits as follows: predefined performance goals. allowances or equivalent. The nature and
Two key variable pay plans are used: levels of benefits for the Senior Executives
• With respect to fixed remuneration, (i) a Short-Term Incentive Plan (STIP), are periodically reviewed and approved
the Company considers the level and an annual cash-based plan designed by the Compensation Committee.
demands of the position, including to reward performance in three areas
• End-of-service awards represent the
duties and responsibilities, as well as (financial, operational, and safety and
annual incremental value to the
the educational qualifications, practical sustainability); and, (ii) a Long-Term
employee of pension provisions and
experience, skills, performance, and Incentive Plan (LTIP) designed to
end-of-service severance provisions, all
seniority of the individual, all within the reward key financial, strategic
of which are paid post-employment.
context of market conditions and pay and environmental/sustainability
practices of peers and other relevant performance over a three-year period.
companies. The values reported for 2021 represent
the awarded amount for the 2019 to
2021 performance period.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 123
[Page 126]
Compensation and other interests continued
Directors’ and Senior Executives’ shareholdings and holdings in debt instruments
Table 3 illustrates shares held by Directors, their relatives, and changes that occurred during 2021. No Director has any interest in debt
instruments issued by the Company or its subsidiaries, and there were no arrangements or agreements by which any of the Directors
waived any salary or compensation.
Table 3: Board of Directors’ rights to shares or debt instruments
Ownership of Directors
Description of any interest, contractually-based securities and subscription rights of the Directors and their relatives in the Company's/
subsidiaries’ shares or debt instruments.
Beginning of the year End of the year
Number of Debt Number of Debt
Name of interest holder shares instruments shares instruments Net change
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan 3,000,000 – 3,000,000 – –
H.E. Dr. Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf 15,000 – 114,341 – 99,341
H.E. Mohammed A. Al-Jadaan – – – – –
H.E. Mohammad M. Al-Tuwaijri – – – – –
Mr. Andrew N. Liveris1 – – – – –
Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans1 – – – – –
Mr. Peter L. Cella1 – – – – –
Mr. Mark A. Weinberger1 – – – – –
Mr. Stuart T. Gulliver1,2 – – – – –
Mr. Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh3 235 – 235 – –
H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi4 – – – – –
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart5 – – – – –
Ownership of Directors’ relatives6
Beginning of the year End of the year
Number of Debt Number of Debt
Name of interest holder shares instruments shares instruments Net change
Relatives of H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan – – – – –
Relatives of H.E. Dr. Ibrahim A. Al-Assaf – – – – –
Relatives of H.E. Mohammed A. Al-Jadaan – – – – –
Relatives of H.E. Mohammad M. Al-Tuwaijri – – – – –
Relatives of Mr. Andrew N. Liveris1 – – – – –
Relatives of Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans1 – – – – –
Relatives of Mr. Peter L. Cella1 – – – – –
Relatives of Mr. Mark A. Weinberger1 – – – – –
Relatives of Mr. Stuart T. Gulliver1,2 – – – – –
Relatives of Mr. Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh3 4,776 – 3,927 – (849)
Relatives of H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi4 – – – – –
Relatives of Sir Mark Moody-Stuart5 – – – – –
1. Non-Saudi nationals not resident in Saudi Arabia are not allowed to be the registered legal owner of Company shares.
2. Mr. Stuart T. Gulliver was elected as a member of the Board on July 1, 2021.
3. Mr. Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh was elected as a member of the Board on July 1, 2021.
4. H.E. Nabeel M. Al-Amudi departed from the Board and its Committees on July 1, 2021.
5. Sir Mark Moody-Stuart departed from the Board and its Committees on July 1, 2021.
6. The term relatives, as defined under the Corporate Governance Regulations, refers to:
– Fathers, mothers, grandfathers and grandmothers (and their ancestors);
– Children and grandchildren and their descendants;
– Siblings, maternal and paternal half-siblings; and
– Husbands and wives.
124 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 127]
Corporate
governance
Table 4 illustrates shares held by Senior Executives, their relatives, and changes that occurred during 2021. No Senior Executive has
any interest in debt instruments issued by the Company or its subsidiaries and there were no arrangements or agreements by which
any of the Senior Executives waived any salary or compensation.
Table 4: Senior Executives’ rights to shares or debt instruments
Ownership of Senior Executives
Description of any interest, contractually-based securities and subscription rights of the Senior Executives and their relatives in the
Company's/subsidiaries’ shares or debt instruments.
Beginning of the year End of the year
Number of Debt Number of Debt
Name of interest holder shares instruments shares instruments Net change
Mr. Amin H. Nasser 6,183 – 7,528 – 1,345
Mr. Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani 18,703 – 19,412 – 709
Mr. Abdulaziz M. Al Gudaimi 17,183 – 18,520 – 1,337
Mr. Ziad T. Al Murshed1 – – 235 – 235
Mr. Ahmad A. Al Sa’adi 16,531 – 17,854 – 1,323
Mr. Nabeel A. Al Mansour 235 – 1,569 – 1,334
Mr. Nabeel A. Al-Jama’ 31,538 – 32,873 – 1,335
Mr. Nasir K. Al-Naimi 3,756 – 3,756 – –
Ownership of Senior Executives’ relatives2
Beginning of the year End of the year
Number of Debt Number of Debt
Name of interest holder shares instruments shares instruments Net change
Relatives of Mr. Amin H. Nasser 58,699 – 23,157 – (35,542)
Relatives of Mr. Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani 91,087 – 130,152 – 39,065
Relatives of Mr. Abdulaziz M. Al Gudaimi – – – – –
Relatives of Mr. Ziad T. Al Murshed1 2,013 – 950 – (1,063)
Relatives of Mr. Ahmad A. Al Sa’adi 5,788 – 6,840 – 1,052
Relatives of Mr. Nabeel A. Al Mansour 9,095 – – – (9,095)
Relatives of Mr. Nabeel A. Al-Jama’ 7,165 – 8,036 – 871
Relatives of Mr. Nasir K. Al-Naimi 430 – 285 – (145)
1. Mr. Ziad T. Al Murshed was appointed Acting Service Line Head, Finance, Strategy & Development and Acting Chief Financial Officer on August 6, 2021.
2. The term relatives, as defined under the Corporate Governance Regulations, refers to:
– Fathers, mothers, grandfathers and grandmothers (and their ancestors);
– Children and grandchildren and their descendants;
– Siblings, maternal and paternal half-siblings; and
– Husbands and wives.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 125
[Page 128]
Governance, risk and compliance
The Company has adopted and Interests in voting shares Redeemable debt instruments
implemented certain corporate There are no interests in any class of The Company did not redeem, purchase or
governance policies and procedures voting shares held by persons who have cancel any redeemable debt instruments.
specified in the Corporate Governance notified the Company of their holdings
Regulations and continues to review pursuant to Article 67 of the Rules on The Company’s requests of shareholders
and identify additional policies and the Offer of Securities and Continuing records in 2021
procedures that it believes are appropriate Obligations. No. Request date Request rationale
for a company of its size, structure, and
1 January 7 Shareholder analysis
industry. Moreover, the Company has Investments made or any reserves set
implemented a Code of Business Conduct up for the benefit of employees 2 March 14 Shareholder analysis
which provides guidelines to the All amounts in millions SAR 2021 2020 3 March 24 Dividend distributions
Directors, Senior Management, employees Pension plans (1,384) 12,167 4 May 18 Dividend distributions
and contract employees of the Company Medical and other 5 June 6 Shareholder analysis
and its controlled subsidiaries regarding,
post-employment 6 June 6 Shareholder analysis
among other things, health, safety and benefit plans 42,113 42,040
environmental protection, competition 7 July 1 Shareholder analysis
Net benefit liability 40,729 54,207
and antitrust, anti-bribery and anti- Annual General
8 July 1
corruption, international trade controls, Assembly meeting
insider trading, and compliance with For details regarding investments made 9 July 6 Shareholder analysis
applicable law. or any reserves set up for the benefit of
10 August 17 Shareholder analysis
employees, refer to Note 21 of the
Risk management consolidated financial statements 11 August 17 Dividend distributions
contained in Section 8. 12 August 29 Shareholder analysis
The Board routinely assesses the
Company’s risks that could impact 13 September 30 Shareholder analysis
Convertible debt instruments, contractual
its business model and/or future 14 September 30 Shareholder analysis
securities, preemptive right or similar
performance. The Company’s risk rights issued or granted 15 October 7 Shareholder analysis
management framework and risk
On December 11, 2019, the Company 16 October 7 Shareholder analysis
factors are outlined in Section 5: Risk.
acquired 117.2 million ordinary shares
17 October 7 Shareholder analysis
from the Government for the purposes
Board of Directors declarations 18 October 7 Shareholder analysis
of issuing them to employees through
The Board declares the following: the Company’s share plans. For further 19 October 20 Shareholder analysis
details, refer to Notes 16 and 17 of the 20 November 8 Dividend distributions
• The accounting records were properly consolidated financial statements 21 December 15 Shareholder analysis
prepared; contained in Section 8.
22 December 15 Shareholder analysis
• The system of internal control is sound
Conversion or subscription rights under 23 December 29 Shareholder analysis
in design and has been effectively
any convertible debt instruments,
implemented; and
contractually-based securities, warrants
• There are no doubts on the Company’s or similar rights issued or granted
ability to continue business. The Company did not issue or grant any
conversion or subscription rights under
Company declarations any convertible debt instruments,
contractually-based securities, warrants
SOCPA endorsed IFRS compliant
or similar rights. Refer to the preceding
The consolidated financial statements
paragraph for disclosure on convertible
have been prepared in accordance
debt instruments, contractual securities,
with International Financial Reporting
preemptive right or similar rights issued
Standards (IFRS) that are endorsed in
or granted by the Company.
the Kingdom, and other standards and
pronouncements issued by SOCPA.
The consolidated financial statements
are also in compliance with IFRS as
issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board (IASB).
126 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
(1,384)
42,113
40,729
[Page 129]
Corporate
governance
Dividend distribution policy and SAR 15.0 billion ($4.0 billion) and increase determines that the amount of any
dividends framework the number of the Company’s issued quarterly cash dividend declared with
Pursuant to the Bylaws, the Board has sole ordinary shares by 20.0 billion without par respect to calendar years 2020 through
discretion to declare dividends with respect value. Such increase will be through 2024 would have been less than
to the outstanding shares in accordance capitalization from the Company’s $0.09375 per ordinary share (based
with the Company’s Dividend Distribution retained earnings. Each shareholder will on 200,000,000,000 ordinary shares
Policy. However, it is under no obligation to be granted one bonus share for every outstanding) but for the Government
do so. The amount and frequency of any 10 shares owned. The increase of the forgoing its rights to such dividend as
dividends will depend on a number of share capital and the number of ordinary follows, the Government will forgo its
factors, including the Company’s historic shares is subject to obtaining necessary right to receive the portion of cash
and anticipated earnings and cash flow, approvals from competent authorities and dividends on the shares owned by the
the Company’s financial obligations and the Extraordinary General Assembly, Government (currently amounting to
capital requirements, general economic which will be announced later as per 94.19%) equal to the amount necessary
and marketplace conditions, and other the required regulatory period. to enable the Company to first pay the
factors deemed relevant by the Board. minimum quarterly cash dividend amount
The Company’s expectations in connection It is the intention of the Board, in its described above to holders of ordinary
with these factors are subject to numerous discretion, to deliver sustainable dividends shares other than the Government.
assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which to its shareholders. The Company’s The remaining amount of the declared
may be beyond the Company’s control. Dividend Distribution Policy states that dividend as determined by the Board in its
dividends may be declared from net discretion will be paid to the Government.
The Company pays dividends to non- profits only after the Company has:
Government shareholders in SAR and In addition, dividends forgone will
to the Government in U.S. dollars. All • Ensured that dividends are capable of not accrue or otherwise be paid to the
shares have the same entitlement to any being distributed by the Company with Government and the waiver applies
dividends declared by the Board and any reference to its most current financial to all ordinary shares not held by the
dividends are and will be distributed in statements; Government from time to time and held
compliance with applicable tax laws. from 2020 to 2024.
• Established any reserves to meet
contingencies as determined from
In 2020 and 2021, the Company’s dividend In 2021, no shareholder of the Company
time to time at the discretion of the
payments totaled SAR 261.2 billion has waived any rights to dividends.
Board; and
($69.6 billion) and SAR 281.3 billion
($75.0 billion), respectively. On March 18, • Taken into consideration its working Punishments and penalties
2022, the Company declared an ordinary capital requirements, near-term The Company is committed to the highest
dividend of SAR 70.3 billion ($18.8 billion) liquidity, and any other factors or standards of governance. The Company is
with respect to the fourth quarter of 2021 considerations that may be relevant not aware of any penalty, precautionary
and is payable to the holders of shares as in this regard, including but not limited procedure or preventative measure
at the eligibility date for payment of such to the implications of any dividend imposed on it by any authority, supervisory,
dividend as declared by the Board. distributions on the Company’s capital regulatory, or judicial body in 2021.
structure, credit ratings, and publicly
In addition, on March 18, 2022, the Board communicated gearing targets. Board of Directors’ report
of Directors recommended to the The information contained in Sections
Extraordinary General Assembly to Royal Order No. A/42, dated 26/1/1441H 1 – 7 of this Annual Report constitutes
increase the Company’s share capital by (corresponding to September 25, 2019) the Board of Directors’ report.
provides that, to the extent that the Board
Compliance with CMA Corporate Governance Regulations
The Company has implemented all the provisions contained in the Corporate Governance Regulations issued by the CMA except the
provisions noted below:
Article No. Provision of the Article Justification
66(b) (Guiding Article) The number of nominees to the Board whose names If applied as presented, CGR 66 would present
are presented to the General Assembly shall be more significant challenges for the Company in practice,
than the number of available seats to give a chance including substantial difficulties recruiting
to the General Assembly to select the Board independent Directors.
members among those nominees.
95 (Guiding Article) If the Board forms a corporate governance While this is a Guiding Article, the Board has charged
committee, it shall assign to it the competences (sic) the Nomination Committee, formed pursuant to the
stipulated in Article (94) of these Regulations. Such Company Bylaws, with the responsibility of
committee shall oversee any matters relating to the overseeing and making recommendations to the
implementation of governance, and shall provide Board with respect to the Company's corporate
the Board with its reports and recommendations governance policies and practices, including the
at least annually. competencies of effective governance described
in Article (94) of the Regulations.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 127
[Page 132]
Additional financial information
Historical financial highlights
Summarized consolidated statement of income
Year ended December 31
All amounts in millions SAR unless otherwise stated 2021 2020 2019 20181 20171
Revenue 1,346,930 768,109 1,105,696 1,194,376 840,483
Other income related to sales2 154,828 93,982 131,089 152,641 150,176
Revenue and other income related to sales 1,501,758 862,091 1,236,785 1,347,017 990,659
Operating costs3 (729,840) (478,731) (561,914) (548,612) (407,744)
Operating income 771,918 383,360 674,871 798,405 582,915
Income before income taxes and zakat 769,521 372,424 666,741 797,896 581,438
Income taxes and zakat4 (357,125) (188,661) (336,048) (381,378) (296,819)
Net income 412,396 183,763 330,693 416,518 284,619
1. In the preparation of each of its financial statements Aramco reclassified certain comparative amounts, at that time, to conform to the current year presentation. Such reclassifications
did not impact the previously reported net income. The financial information above presents the reclassified results extracted from the comparative column of the relevant financial
statements.
2. Aramco sells certain hydrocarbons within the Kingdom at regulated prices mandated by the Government. The Government implemented an equalization mechanism to compensate
the Company for revenues directly forgone as a result of its compliance with the Government mandates related to crude oil and certain refined products. Effective September 17, 2019,
the Government implemented an equalization mechanism related to Regulated Gas Products. Effective January 1, 2020, the Government expanded the equalization mechanism to
include LPGs and certain other products.
3. Effective January 1, 2020, the royalty rate applicable to Aramco on crude oil and condensate production was amended, such that: (i) the royalty rate was reduced to 15% (from 20%)
on Brent prices up to $70 per barrel; (ii) the marginal royalty rate increased to 45% (from 40%) on Brent prices above $70 per barrel up to $100 per barrel; and (iii) the marginal royalty
rate increased to 80% (from 50%) on Brent prices above $100 per barrel.
4. The income tax rate applicable to Aramco was 50%, except that: (i) effective from January 1, 2018, a 20% tax rate applies to the Company’s taxable income related to certain natural
gas activities; and (ii) effective January 1, 2020, the tax rate applicable to the Company’s downstream activities is the general corporate tax rate of 20% that applies to all similar
domestic downstream companies under the Income Tax Law.
Summarized consolidated balance sheet
As at December 31
All amounts in millions SAR unless otherwise stated 2021 2020 20192 20181 2017
Total assets 2,162,690 1,914,261 1,494,126 1,346,892 1,102,553
Total liabilities 882,022 813,167 447,891 318,457 276,239
Net assets (total equity) 1,280,668 1,101,094 1,046,235 1,028,435 826,314
1. In the preparation of each of its financial statements Aramco reclassified certain comparative amounts, at that time, to conform to the current year presentation. The financial
information above presents the reclassified results extracted from the comparative column of the relevant financial statements.
2. Aramco adopted IFRS 16 on January 1, 2019, using a modified retrospective approach. As a result, in the preparation of the 2019 financial statements, Aramco applied prospectively,
starting January 1, 2019, the new classification and measurement models for lease contracts and consequently 2018 and prior period comparative information was not restated.
Summarized consolidated statement of cash flows
Year ended December 31
All amounts in millions SAR unless otherwise stated 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Net cash provided by operating activities 522,601 285,297 416,529 453,701 333,607
Net cash used in investing activities (135,741) (20,899) (177,144) (131,205) (118,629)
Net cash used in financing activities (294,513) (234,872) (244,831) (220,586) (181,811)
130 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
1,346,930
154,828
1,501,758
(729,840)
771,918
769,521
(357,125)
412,396
2,162,690
882,022
1,280,668
522,601
(135,741)
(294,513)
[Page 133]
Additional financial
and legal information
Statutory amounts paid and payable
Statutory amounts paid1
Year ended
All amounts in millions SAR December
unless otherwise stated Reasons for amounts paid 31, 2021
Income taxes and zakat calculated in accordance with Saudi Income Tax Regulations.
Income taxes and zakat See Note 8 of the consolidated financial statements 141,699
Royalties Production royalties determined in accordance with Government agreements 138,999
Total 280,698
Statutory amounts payable1
As at
All amounts in millions SAR December
unless otherwise stated Reasons for amounts payable 31, 2021
Income taxes and zakat Government obligation, payable on a monthly basis 85,755
Royalties Government obligation, payable on a monthly basis 13,939
Total 99,694
1. Statutory amounts paid and payable are in respect of the Company.
Geographical analysis of Aramco’s external revenue
Sales to external customers by region are based on the location of the Aramco entity which made the sale. Out-of-Kingdom revenue
includes sales of SAR 148,488 million originating from the United States of America (2020: SAR 110,652 million). For more details, refer
to Section 8: Consolidated financial statements — Note 4.
2021 2020
2021 2020
Billions SAR Billions SAR
454.5 892.5 229.7 538.4
Out-of-Kingdom In-Kingdom Out-of-Kingdom In-Kingdom
Geographical analysis of the Company’s crude oil deliveries
The following analysis is based on the Company’s crude oil delivery destination.
Year ended December 31
2021 2020
mbpd mbpd
Region:
Asia (excluding the Kingdom) 5,061 5,142
North America 440 546
Europe 522 759
Others 235 258
Total international deliveries 6,258 6,705
Total in-Kingdom deliveries 2,911 2,552
Total crude oil deliveries1,2,3 9,169 9,257
1. Includes AGOC’s oil production and blended condensate.
2. Excludes loss in volumes measured upon loading and unloading of crude oil shipments.
3. Excludes volumes produced from Abu Sa’fah and delivered to the Kingdom of Bahrain.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 131
[TABLE DATA]
141,699
138,999
280,698
85,755
13,939
99,694
5,061
440
522
235
6,258
2,911
9,169
[Page 134]
Additional financial information continued
Related party transactions
As part of its normal course of business, Aramco enters into various related party contracts and transactions. These principally include
sales and purchases, and providing and receiving services. Aramco sells hydrocarbon products and provides services to, and receives
services from, Government, semi-Government entities and other entities in which the Government has ownership or control. These
transactions are made on specific terms within the relevant regulatory framework in the Kingdom.
Other than with respect to compensation arrangements, as at the date of this Annual Report there are no transactions in which any
of the Company’s Directors or Senior Executives or an immediate family member thereof had or will have a direct or indirect interest
or were not entered into on an arm’s length basis. For compensation-related transactions with the Company’s Directors and Senior
Executives, see Section 6: Corporate governance.
The table below sets forth the transactions during the year ended December 31, 2021, identified by Aramco as material related party
transactions based on available information. For more information on Aramco’s related party transactions, see Section 8: Consolidated
financial statements — Note 29.
Year ended
December
All amounts in millions SAR unless otherwise stated 31, 2021
Joint ventures:
Revenue from sales 23,003
Other revenue 124
Interest income 105
Purchases 22,466
Service expenses 11
Associates:
Revenue from sales 65,355
Other revenue 559
Interest income 135
Purchases 57,214
Service expenses 150
Lease expenses 188
Government, semi-Government and other entities with Government ownership or control:
Revenue from sales 17,644
Other income related to sales 154,828
Other revenue 1,061
Purchases 73,091
Service expenses 634
Lease expenses 461
The following table sets forth Aramco’s material related party transaction balances as at December 31, 2021.
As at
December
All amounts in millions SAR unless otherwise stated 31, 2021
Joint ventures:
Other assets and receivables 5,943
Trade receivables 4,755
Interest receivable 233
Trade and other payables 6,803
Associates:
Other assets and receivables 6,813
Trade receivables 14,794
Trade and other payables 7,916
Borrowings 15
Government, semi-Government and other entities with Government ownership or control:
Other assets and receivables 509
Trade receivables 3,056
Due from the Government 41,317
Trade and other payables 2,959
Borrowings 229,525
132 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
23,003
124
105
22,466
11
65,355
559
135
57,214
150
188
17,644
154,828
1,061
73,091
634
461
5,943
4,755
233
6,803
6,813
14,794
7,916
15
509
3,056
41,317
2,959
229,525
[Page 135]
Additional financial
and legal information
The following table sets forth material related party transactions and balances for the year ended, and as at, December 31, 2021, by
related party.
December
All amounts in millions SAR unless otherwise stated 31, 2021
Transactions with joint ventures:
Revenue from sales
Eastern Petrochemical Company (“Sharq”) 6,679
Sadara Chemical Company ("Sadara") 4,718
Saudi Yanbu Petrochemical Company ("Yanpet") 3,293
Al-Jubail Petrochemical Company (“Kemya”) 3,251
First Coast Energy LLP (“FCE”) 2,141
Tas’helat Marketing Company (“TMC”) 1,879
Others 1,042
23,003
Other revenue
Others 124
124
Interest income
Others 105
105
Purchases
Eastern Petrochemical Company (“Sharq”) 8,663
Saudi Yanbu Petrochemical Company (“Yanpet”) 4,256
Al-Jubail Petrochemical Company (“Kemya”) 4,069
Sadara Chemical Company ("Sadara") 2,906
Others 2,572
22,466
Service expenses
Others 11
11
Other assets and receivables
Sadara Chemical Company (“Sadara”) 3,544
Eastern Petrochemical Company (“Sharq”) 2,130
Others 269
5,943
Trade receivables
Sadara Chemical Company ("Sadara") 1,811
Eastern Petrochemical Company ("Sharq") 1,268
Others 1,676
4,755
Interest receivable
Others 233
233
Trade and other payables
Eastern Petrochemical Company (“Sharq”) 3,188
Saudi Yanbu Petrochemical Company ("Yanpet") 1,335
Al-Jubail Petrochemical Company ("Kemya") 1,256
Others 1,024
6,803
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 133
[TABLE DATA]
6,679
4,718
3,293
3,251
2,141
1,879
1,042
23,003
124
124
105
105
8,663
4,256
4,069
2,906
2,572
22,466
11
11
3,544
2,130
269
5,943
1,811
1,268
1,676
4,755
233
233
3,188
1,335
1,256
1,024
6,803
[Page 136]
Additional financial information continued
December
All amounts in millions SAR unless otherwise stated 31, 2021
Transactions with associates:
Revenue from sales
Rabigh Refining and Petrochemical Company (“Petro Rabigh”) 35,970
Hyundai Oilbank Co. Ltd. (“Hyundai Oilbank”) 27,488
Power & Water Utility Company for Jubail and Yanbu (“Marafiq”) 1,211
Others 686
65,355
Other revenue
Others 559
559
Interest income
Others 135
135
Purchases
Rabigh Refining and Petrochemical Company (“Petro Rabigh”) 34,519
Hyundai Oilbank Co. Ltd. (“Hyundai Oilbank”) 8,355
Sinopec SenMei (Fujian) Petroleum Company Limited (“SSPC”) 4,519
Power & Water Utility Company for Jubail and Yanbu (“Marafiq”) 3,705
Fujian Refining and Petrochemical Company Limited (“FREP”) 1,714
National Shipping Company of Saudi Arabia (“Bahri”) 1,549
Others 2,853
57,214
Service expenses
Others 150
150
Lease expenses
Others 188
188
Other assets and receivables
Rabigh Refining and Petrochemical Company (“Petro Rabigh”) 6,776
Others 37
6,813
Trade receivables
Rabigh Refining and Petrochemical Company (“Petro Rabigh”) 11,835
Hyundai Oilbank Co. Ltd. (“Hyundai Oilbank”) 2,126
Others 833
14,794
Trade and other payables
Rabigh Refining and Petrochemical Company (“Petro Rabigh”) 6,105
National Shipping Company of Saudi Arabia ("Bahri") 1,346
Others 465
7,916
Borrowings
Others 15
15
134 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
35,970
27,488
1,211
686
65,355
559
559
135
135
34,519
8,355
4,519
3,705
1,714
1,549
2,853
57,214
150
150
188
188
6,776
37
6,813
11,835
2,126
833
14,794
6,105
1,346
465
7,916
15
15
[Page 137]
Additional financial
and legal information
December
All amounts in millions SAR unless otherwise stated 31, 2021
Transactions with Government, semi-Government and other entities with Government ownership or control:
Revenue from sales
Government and semi-Government 1,496
Saudi Electricity Company (“SEC”) 8,441
Saline Water Conversion Company (“SWCC”) 2,486
Saudi Arabian Mining Company ("Ma'aden") 2,224
Saudi Arabian Airlines (“Saudia”) 2,111
Others 886
17,644
Other income related to sales
Government and semi-Government 154,828
154,828
Other revenue
Government and semi-Government 379
Others 682
1,061
Purchases
Government and semi-Government 24,701
Arabian Drilling Company 20,659
Saudi Electricity Company (“SEC”) 8,085
Arabian Geophysical and Surveying Company ("ARGAS") 6,551
Jubail Energy Services Company ("JESCO") 5,749
Saudi Telecom Company ("STC") 2,344
Saudi Arabian Mining Company (“Ma’aden”) 1,725
Saudi National Bank ("SNB") 1,159
Saline Water Conversion Company ("SWCC") 1,069
Others 1,049
73,091
Service expenses
Government and semi-Government 566
Others 68
634
Lease expenses
Government and semi-Government 19
Others 442
461
Other assets and receivables
Others 509
509
Trade receivables
Government and semi-Government 990
Others 2,066
3,056
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 135
[TABLE DATA]
1,496
8,441
2,486
2,224
2,111
886
17,644
154,828
154,828
379
682
1,061
24,701
20,659
8,085
6,551
5,749
2,344
1,725
1,159
1,069
1,049
73,091
566
68
634
19
442
461
509
509
990
2,066
3,056
[Page 138]
Additional financial information continued
December
All amounts in millions SAR unless otherwise stated 31, 2021
Due from the Government
Government and semi-Government 41,317
41,317
Trade and other payables
Government and semi-Government 1,414
Saudi Arabian Mining Company ("Ma'aden") 1,144
Others 401
2,959
Borrowings
Government and semi-Government 228,798
Others 727
229,525
Total indebtedness of Aramco
Information on Aramco’s total indebtedness as at December 31, 2021, is as follows:
Balance as at
Total Loan Repaid December 31, Maturity
All amounts in millions SAR unless otherwise stated facility duration during the year 2021 date
Commercial borrowings 31,695 5 to 24 years (4,052) 29,787 2022-2045
Sukuk 61,174 3 to 14 years (231) 34,826 2024-2031
Export credit agencies 2,835 14 to 15 years (1,728) 2,835 2022-2025
Public Investment Fund 1,826 14 to 15 years (1,829) 1,826 2022-2025
Saudi Industrial Development Fund 4,624 7 to 17 years (766) 4,511 2022-2035
Ijarah/Procurement 3,949 5 to 23 years (951) 3,334 2022-2039
Murabaha 31,114 7 to 22 years (1,156) 19,489 2022-2030
Wakala 1,294 7 to 16 years (7) 1,054 2028-2036
Revolving credit facilities 49,541 1 to 7 years (1,463) 5,370 2022-2026
Short-term borrowings 20,419 1 year (42,291) 11,981 2022
Debentures 101,396 3 to 50 years (36) 102,199 2022-2070
Deferred consideration 222,267 8 years (18,750) 222,267 2028
Lease liabilities – – (12,143) 47,191 Not defined
Other financing arrangements 24,264 1 to 25 years (303) 24,251 2022-2046
556,398 (85,706) 510,921
136 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
41,317
41,317
1,414
1,144
401
2,959
228,798
727
229,525
[Page 139]
Reserves information Additional financial
and legal information
Reserves as at December 31, 2021
As at December 31, 2021, the Kingdom’s reserves in the fields Aramco operates consisted of 337.3 billion boe (2020: 336.9 billion boe),
including 261.6 billion barrels (2020: 261.6 billion barrels) of crude oil and condensate, 36.0 billion barrels (2020: 36.0 billion barrels)
of NGL and 241.5 tscf (2020: 238.8 tscf) of natural gas, including 153.7 tscf (2020: 150.2 tscf) of non-associated gas.
Under the Original Concession, which was in effect until December 24, 2017, Aramco’s rights with respect to hydrocarbons in the
Kingdom were not limited to a particular term. Accordingly, until such date, the Kingdom’s reserves in the fields Aramco operated
were the same as Aramco’s reserves. Effective December 24, 2017, the Concession limited Aramco’s exclusive right to explore,
develop and produce the Kingdom’s hydrocarbon resources, except in the Excluded Areas, to an initial period of 40 years, which
will be extended by the Government for 20 years provided Aramco satisfies certain conditions commensurate with current operating
practices. In addition, the Concession may be extended for an additional 40 years beyond the prior 60-year period subject to Aramco
and the Government agreeing on the terms of the extension (see Additional legal information — the Concession). The provision of a
specified term in the Concession impacts the calculation of Aramco’s reserves as compared to the Kingdom’s reserves in the fields
Aramco operates. The Concession also requires Aramco to meet domestic demand for certain hydrocarbons, petroleum products
and LPGs through domestic production or imports.
Based on the initial 40-year period and 20-year extension of the Concession, as at December 31, 2021, Aramco’s reserves were
253.6 billion boe (2020: 255.2 billion boe). Aramco’s oil equivalent reserves consisted of 196.9 billion barrels (2020: 198.8 billion
barrels) of crude oil and condensate, 25.2 billion barrels (2020: 25.2 billion barrels) of NGL and 194.5 tscf (2020: 191.6 tscf) of
natural gas. As at December 31, 2021, Aramco’s portfolio included 530 (2020: 517) reservoirs within 142 (2020: 137) fields
distributed throughout the Kingdom and its territorial waters. Based on Aramco’s reserves data, as at December 31, 2021,
Aramco’s oil equivalent reserves were sufficient for proved reserves life of 56 years.
Aramco manages the Kingdom’s unique reserves and resources base to optimize production and maximize long-term value pursuant
to the Hydrocarbons Law, which mandates that Aramco’s hydrocarbon operations promote long-term productivity of the Kingdom’s
reservoirs and support the prudent stewardship of its hydrocarbon resources. Aramco has historically replaced reserves on an organic
basis through revisions of reserve estimates at existing fields and through delineation and exploration to identify new fields. As a result,
the Kingdom’s estimated proved reserves at the largest oil fields operated by Aramco have increased since the time of original production.
The following table sets forth Aramco’s estimates of its proved reserves based on the term of the Concession as at December 31, 2021
and 2020.
Natural gas
Crude oil Condensate NGL Combined
(mmbbl) (mmbbl) (bscf) (mmboe) (mmbbl) (mmboe)
Reserves as at December 31, 2021 193,195 3,676 194,453 31,549 25,188 253,608
Reserves as at December 31, 2020 195,444 3,399 191,573 31,086 25,226 255,155
The following table sets forth the Kingdom’s estimates of its proved reserves in the fields Aramco operates as at December 31, 2021
and 2020.
Natural gas
Crude oil Condensate NGL Combined
(mmbbl) (mmbbl) (bscf) (mmboe) (mmbbl) (mmboe)
Reserves as at December 31, 2021 256,826 4,766 241,529 39,783 35,956 337,331
Reserves as at December 31, 2020 257,063 4,493 238,838 39,345 35,971 336,872
Aramco’s reserve estimates conform to the SPE-PRMS definitions and guidelines, which is the internationally recognized industry
standard sponsored by the Society of Petroleum Engineers, the American Association of Petroleum Geologists, the World Petroleum
Council, the Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers, the Society of Exploration Geophysicists, the Society of Petrophysicists and
Well Log Analysts and the European Association of Geoscientists and Engineers. To estimate or update Aramco’s reserve estimates,
the Upstream segment employees responsible for reserves calculations perform technical analyses that are reviewed internally by
progressively higher levels of management until finalized at year-end. Aramco annually updates its estimates as it acquires and
interprets new data. For reservoirs that have been producing and have established certain performance trends, Aramco is typically
able to reliably forecast the reservoir’s future production. For reservoirs that have little to no production history and new discoveries,
Aramco undertakes further analysis in addition to multidisciplinary evaluation to formulate production forecasts.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 137
[TABLE DATA]
193,195 | 3,676 | 194,453 | 31,549 | 25,188 | 253,608
256,826 | 4,766 | 241,529 | 39,783 | 35,956 | 337,331
[Page 140]
Regulation of the oil and gas industry in the Kingdom
The following paragraphs summarize certain key regulation and legislation to which Aramco is subject as an operator in the oil and
gas industry.
Law on hydrocarbons
Overview
The Hydrocarbons Law was enacted by Royal Decree No. M/37, dated 2/4/1439H (corresponding to December 20, 2017) and applies
to hydrocarbons, hydrocarbon resources and the hydrocarbon operations existing within the territory of the Kingdom.
Licenses
No hydrocarbon operations can be conducted in the Kingdom without obtaining a license in accordance with the Hydrocarbons Law.
The Government grants licenses related to hydrocarbon operations pursuant to regulations, procedures and policies established from
time to time, which outline the terms and conditions relating to the granting of a license.
The grant of a license pursuant to the Hydrocarbons Law does not, and cannot, confer any right of ownership of the soil or subsoil in
the license area. In addition, the Government retains the right to explore for and exploit any natural resource other than hydrocarbons
in the license area and may exercise such right in a manner that does not prejudice the licensee’s rights and does not hinder the
hydrocarbon operations conducted by a licensee.
Ownership rights
Under the Hydrocarbons Law, the Kingdom exercises sovereignty over all hydrocarbon deposits, hydrocarbons and hydrocarbon
resources. All hydrocarbons in the Kingdom are owned by the Kingdom and, upon extraction or recovery of such hydrocarbons
by the licensee, title to such hydrocarbons shall automatically pass to the licensee at the ownership transfer point. The Kingdom’s
ownership of hydrocarbon deposits and hydrocarbon resources may not be transferred.
Supervision and implementation of the Hydrocarbons Law
The Ministry of Energy is the only body responsible for implementing the Hydrocarbons Law and overseeing all aspects of a licensee’s
hydrocarbons operations, including the licensee’s technical operations and the review of all the licensee’s revenues and expenses.
The Ministry of Energy acts as a liaison between relevant bodies and the licensee in relation to a license. The Ministry of Energy
is also responsible for preparing and overseeing the national strategies and policies related to hydrocarbons to ensure the
implementation, development and appropriate use of hydrocarbon resources, and conservation of the Kingdom’s hydrocarbon
reserves for future generations.
Production decisions
The Kingdom has the sovereign, exclusive and binding authority to make production decisions related to both the maximum level
of hydrocarbons that a licensee can produce at any given point in time and the level of MSC that a licensee must maintain. In each
case, the Kingdom shall take into account the Kingdom’s economic development, environment conservation, national security, political
and developmental goals, foreign policy, diplomatic considerations, domestic energy needs, public interest and any other sovereign
interest when making a production decision. In setting the level of MSC, consideration shall be given to the economic or operational
effects of a licensee. A licensee must provide the Kingdom with any requested information relating to hydrocarbons exploration,
extraction and production, including financial and technical data, discovery data and any other information that could facilitate the
issuance of a production decision. The Kingdom has unrestricted access to such information.
Conservation of hydrocarbon resources
The Hydrocarbons Law requires that hydrocarbons operations be managed and maintained in a professional, adequate and active
manner in accordance with international industry standards, the Hydrocarbons Law and regulations, and in an economically feasible
and efficient manner that promotes the long-term productivity of reservoirs in the licensed area and supports the prudent stewardship
of hydrocarbon resources and hydrocarbons, and limits their abandonment.
Additional licensee obligations
A licensee is responsible for taking all prudent and sound procedures to ensure the safety of the licensee’s hydrocarbon operations
and facilities, in accordance with international industry standards and applicable laws. A licensee is also obligated to take all required
precautions, in accordance with the relevant hydrocarbons regulations and international industry standards, to prevent waste and
leakage of hydrocarbons, damage to formations containing water and hydrocarbons during drilling, repairing or deepening of wells,
or in events of abandonment or relinquishment, and to prevent leakage of gas and liquids into bearing layers or other layers.
The Hydrocarbons Law prohibits any licensee from selling to any entity any hydrocarbons or derivatives obtained through the license
in violation of what the Kingdom considers necessary to protect the fundamental security interests of the Kingdom in times of war or
other emergencies in international relations.
138 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 141]
Additional financial
and legal information
Law of gas supplies and pricing
Overview
The GSPR was enacted by Royal Decree No. M/36, dated 25/6/1424H (corresponding to August 23, 2003), and applies to the activities
of transmission, processing, fractionation, storage, local distribution, aggregation and sales and marketing (each, a Regulated Activity)
of any gaseous or liquid hydrocarbons (other than crude oil or condensate) produced in the Kingdom which have been subject to
treatment in a gas treatment plant (Regulated Hydrocarbons).
Licenses
Pursuant to the GSPR, a license is required for the conduct of any Regulated Activity. In considering an application for a license, the
Ministry of Energy takes into account the long-term security of supply of any Regulated Hydrocarbons, the avoidance of undesirable
duplication consistent with the optimal development of the Kingdom’s gas industry and the proximity of the proposed Regulated
Activity to the MGS.
Aramco as aggregator and tariffs
Under the GSPR, Aramco acts as the aggregator of Regulated Hydrocarbons which access the MGS.
The Ministry of Energy publishes transportation, processing and fractionation tariffs, and other terms and conditions applicable
to the MGS and to connections to the MGS as prescribed in the rules of implementation of the GSPR. The tariff and other terms and
conditions for services provided through any pipeline that is not connected to the MGS are negotiated between the relevant parties.
The rules of implementation of the GSPR set out the criteria for determining third-party access tariffs which may be charged for the
utilization of any local distribution system.
Marketing and sales rights: price for natural gas
Pursuant to the GSPR, Aramco performs all domestic marketing and sales of natural gas and NGL from the MGS with certain exceptions.
Aramco also undertakes the export of NGL produced within the Kingdom. Any company that produces Regulated Hydrocarbons in the
Kingdom and does not access the MGS may domestically consume, sell or otherwise domestically dispose of such relevant hydrocarbons
as per the terms set by the Ministry of Energy. All natural gas produced by any company is to be priced at the regulated price in the
Kingdom at the point of delivery to a major consumer or to a licensee entitled to operate a local distribution system.
Allocation of natural gas and NGL
The necessary allocation to users of Regulated Hydrocarbons is effected by the Ministry of Energy pursuant to criteria set by the
Ministry of Energy on the basis of sectoral demand estimates for each of the electricity sector, the petrochemical sector, the water
desalination sector, the oil sector and other industrial sectors, reflecting the usages of natural gas and NGL that achieve the optimal
efficiency and produce the highest added value to the national economy of the Kingdom.
Regulated domestic pricing of certain hydrocarbons
Setting of domestic prices for regulated hydrocarbons
Pursuant to a series of Council of Ministers Resolutions, the Kingdom has established regulated prices for domestic sales of certain
hydrocarbons: crude oil, natural gas (including ethane), NGL (propane, butane and natural gasoline) and certain refined products
(kerosene, diesel, heavy fuel oil and gasoline).
Liquids price equalization
Pursuant to Council of Ministers Resolution No. 406, dated 28/6/1438H (corresponding to March 27, 2017), and the Ministerial Resolution
issued by the Ministry of Energy, in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, No. 1/2465/1439, dated 10/4/1439H (corresponding to
December 28, 2017), when the Company sells crude oil and certain refined products (each a Relevant Liquid Product) domestically
at a price below the corresponding equalization prices (described below), it is entitled to compensation from the Government in an
amount equal to the cost of the revenues directly forgone as a result of its compliance with the Kingdom’s current pricing mandates
(the Liquid Price Equalization). The Ministerial Resolution issued by the Ministry of Energy, in agreement with the Ministry of Finance,
No. 1/424/1441, dated 18/1/1441H (corresponding to September 17, 2019), effective January 1, 2020, supersedes the prior Ministerial
Resolution and expanded the equalization mechanism to include LPGs and certain other products. In the event the equalization
price is less than the regulated price, the difference would be due from the Company to the Government.
The Ministry of Energy is responsible for administering the Liquids Price Equalization regime, including the setting of the equalization
prices from time to time. The equalization prices are established separately by the Ministry of Energy for each Relevant Liquid Product
using a combination of either internationally recognized indices or, where relevant, the Company’s official selling price and, depending
on the Relevant Liquid Product, on the basis of export parity, import parity or a combination of both. The Company is required to
provide information and technical assistance to the Ministry of Energy as necessary for this purpose.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 139
[Page 142]
Regulation of the oil and gas industry in the Kingdom continued
The compensation from the Government is accounted for on a monthly basis and is calculated as the positive difference between the
equalization prices and the regulated prices (minus any Government fees). The Company must provide the Ministry of Energy with a
statement detailing the total amount due to the Company in a monthly period no later than 30 days after the relevant monthly period
ends. The Company may then offset this compensation against any taxes payable, and in the event taxes are insufficient, any other
amounts due and payable by the Company to the Government, such as royalties.
Gas pricing
From time to time, the Kingdom establishes certain prices for the domestic sale of gas hydrocarbons (the Domestic Price), including
those for Regulated Gas Products. Pursuant to Council of Ministers Resolution No. 370, dated 10/7/1439H (corresponding to March 27,
2018), and the Ministerial Resolution issued by the Ministry of Energy, in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, No. 01-5928-1439,
dated as at 27/8/1439H (corresponding to May 13, 2018), effective March 17, 2018, the Kingdom established the price due to licensees
for the domestic sale of Regulated Gas Products (the Blended Price) in order to ensure that licensees making gas investments realize
a commercial rate of return suitable for the development and exploitation of gas resources in the Kingdom (with reasonable rates of
return on existing non-associated gas projects and on incremental future non-associated projects).
Effective September 17, 2019, Council of Ministers Resolution No. 55, dated 18/1/1441H (corresponding to September 17, 2019), and the
Ministerial Resolution issued by the Ministry of Energy, in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, No. 1/423/1441, dated 18/1/1441H
(corresponding to September 17, 2019), were passed, superseding the prior Council of Ministers’ resolutions and ministerial resolutions,
and removing the requirement that the Domestic Price be no less than the Blended Price. The new framework instead provides that the
licensees are entitled to compensation from the Government in an amount equal to the cost of the revenues directly forgone as a result
of the licensees’ compliance with the Kingdom’s pricing mandates if the Domestic Prices are not set at least at the Blended Prices. In the
event that the Blended Price is less than the Domestic Price, the difference would be due from the Company to the Government.
The Ministry of Energy is responsible for administering this regime, including setting the Blended Prices from time to time. The
Blended Prices are established separately by the Ministry of Energy for each Regulated Gas Product. The Company is required to
provide information and technical assistance to the Ministry of Energy as necessary for this purpose.
The compensation from the Government is accounted for on a monthly basis and is calculated as the positive difference between
the Blended Prices and the Domestic Prices (minus any Government fees). The Company must provide the Ministry of Energy with a
statement detailing the total amount due to the Company in a monthly period no later than 30 days after the relevant monthly period
ends. The Company may then offset this compensation against any taxes payable, and in the event taxes are insufficient, any other
amounts due and payable by the Company to the Government, such as royalties.
Government guarantee
Aramco sells hydrocarbon products to various Government and semi-Government entities, including ministries and other branches of
the Government, and separate legal entities in which the Government has share ownership or control. Effective January 1, 2017, the
Government guarantees amounts due to Aramco from certain of these entities, subject to a limit on the amount of the guarantee for
each entity. The aggregate amount guaranteed in 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021 was SAR 32.7 billion, SAR 26.7 billion, SAR 26.7 billion,
and SAR 12.8 billion, respectively. Prior to the beginning of each subsequent fiscal year or during such year upon the change to any
Government established domestic prices for hydrocarbon products (such regulated sales constituting the majority of the sales to
Government and semi-Government entities covered by the guarantee), the Ministry of Energy will consult with the Ministry of
Finance and will provide Aramco with a list of the entities to be covered by the guarantee for that year and the guarantee limit for
each covered entity. Government entities previously covered will remain subject to the guarantee, but the guarantee will cease with
respect to any entity in which the Government has share ownership or control if such entity pays amounts due to Aramco on a timely
basis for five years. Aramco is permitted to discontinue supply to any such Government or semi-Government customer upon the
exhaustion of the credit limit or if such customer is no longer a guaranteed customer and fails to pay any amounts when due. Aramco
may set off any guaranteed amounts that are past due against taxes due to the Government, or if the amount of taxes is inadequate,
any other amounts Aramco owes to the Government.
Compensation for Saudi Strategic Storage Program
Under the Saudi Strategic Storage Program, the Government requires the Company to maintain reserves of certain petroleum products.
Pursuant to Council of Ministers Resolution No. 56, dated 18/1/1441H (corresponding to September 17, 2019), effective January 1, 2020,
the Government compensates the Company for carrying costs associated with maintaining Government-mandated petroleum product
reserves in an amount of $41.2 million per month. Council of Ministers Resolution No. 56 requires that this amount be reviewed by the
Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Finance and the Company every five years.
140 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 143]
Additional financial
and legal information
Income tax and zakat
Saudi resident entities operating in the oil and hydrocarbons production sector are subject to corporate income tax.
Royal Decree No. M/13, dated 18/1/1441H (corresponding to September 17, 2019), Council of Ministers Resolution No. 54, dated
18/1/1441H (corresponding to September 17, 2019) and Ministerial Resolution issued by the Ministry of Finance No. 559, dated 10/2/1441H
(corresponding to October 9, 2019) provide that the tax rate applicable to the downstream activities (as is expected to be defined in
“Trifurcation Regulations” by ZATCA in collaboration with the Ministry of Energy) of the Company will be the general corporate tax rate
of 20%, for a five-year period beginning on January 1, 2020, provided the Company separates its downstream activities (from its oil and
other hydrocarbon production activities) into one or more independent legal entities before December 31, 2024. If the Company does not
comply in separating its downstream activities from the oil and other hydrocarbon production activities by December 31, 2024, income
from downstream activities will be taxed retroactively on an annual basis for such five-year period in accordance with the multitiered tax
rates applicable to domestic oil and hydrocarbon production companies. In such case, the Company will be required to pay the difference
in taxes due to the Government.
Effective January 1, 2018, a 20% corporate income tax rate applies to companies engaged in natural gas investment activities
(previously 30%). Companies involved in both oil and hydrocarbons production activities as well as natural gas investment activities
are required to prepare tax computation for each activity separately.
According to amendments to the Income Tax Law, effective January 1, 2017, ownership by companies engaged in oil and hydrocarbon
production activities in Saudi Arabian entities that are not carrying out oil and hydrocarbons production activities should generally be
subject to corporate income tax at 20% (at the level of the investee/subsidiary).
By Royal Decree No. M/153 dated 05/11/1441H (corresponding to June 26, 2020), the Income Tax Law was further amended to provide
that companies listed on the Saudi Stock Exchange (Tadawul) are not subject to corporate income tax with respect to shares owned
(directly or indirectly) by companies engaged in oil and hydrocarbon activities and instead are subject to zakat, including their indirect
interest in those companies (at the level of the investee/subsidiary of such listed companies). This Income Tax Law amendment was
effective January 1, 2020.
There are certain rules that apply to the method of calculating the zakat liability. In general, zakat on zakat payers engaged in non-
financing activities is currently levied on the higher of the adjusted zakatable profits or the zakat base (following a Hijri year) which, in
general, comprises equity, loans and credit balances (subject to certain conditions), provisions and adjusted net profit or loss for zakat
purposes, reduced by, among other items, certain deductible long-term investments and fixed assets. The zakat rate on the zakat base
is approximately 2.578% if a zakat payer is following the Gregorian financial year and 2.5% if a zakat payer is following Hijri financial
year. The zakat rate on zakatable profit is 2.5% regardless of the financial year (Gregorian or Hijri) followed by the zakat payer.
Other relevant laws and regulations
Petrochemical regulations
Royal Order No. 10030, dated 15/02/1443H (corresponding to 22 September 2021), stipulates that the Ministry of Energy will oversee
and regulate the petrochemical production operations in the following sector value chain (N+3,N+2,N+1,N),whereas the Ministry of
Industry and Mineral Resources will be in charge of overseeing and regulating transformative industries (industrial applications) that
depend on petrochemicals.
Health and safety regulations
Health and safety matters associated with oil and gas activities are regulated through several Government authorities, including the
Ministry of Interior. In addition, the High Commission for Industrial Security issues safety and fire protection directives for industrial
facilities which set forth minimum requirements for health and safety management systems. Health and safety principles and
obligations are included in Part 8 (Protection against Occupational Hazards, Major Industrial Accidents and Work Injuries, and Health
and Social Services) of the Saudi Arabian Labor Law issued under Royal Decree No. M/51, dated 23/8/1426H (corresponding to
September 27, 2005), as amended, and Part 5 of the Social Insurance Law, enacted by Royal Decree No. M/22 dated 6/9/1389H
(corresponding to October 15, 1969) as amended by Royal Decree No. M/33 dated 3/9/1421H (corresponding to November 29, 2000).
Environmental regulations
Under the Environmental Law enacted by Royal Decree No. M/165 dated 19/11/1441H corresponding to July 10, 2020, and repealing
the General Environmental Law, enacted by Royal Decree No. M/34, dated 28/7/1422H (corresponding to October 16, 2001) MEWA
and its centers are charged with the general supervision of environmental affairs in the Kingdom.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 141
[Page 144]
Regulation of the oil and gas industry in the Kingdom continued
This law sets out wide-ranging prohibitions of pollution and contamination of air, land and water. Prior to the initiation of a project,
an environmental evaluation study, identifying: (i) potential environmental impacts; (ii) appropriate actions and means to prevent or
reduce negative impacts; or (iii) appropriate actions to increase the project’s positive returns to the environment, must be completed
in accordance with the relevant environmental specifications and standards.
The Water Law, enacted by Royal Decree No. M/159, dated 11/11/1441H (corresponding to July 2, 2020), aims to protect the
Kingdom’s water sources, grow additional sources, and ensure their sustainability. The Ministry of Energy signed a Memorandum
of Understanding with MEWA whereby the Ministry of Energy will be responsible for the application of certain provisions of the
Water Law for certain facilities falling under its supervision.
Apart from national environmental legislation, other regulations are applicable in certain areas of the Kingdom. The Royal Commission
for Jubail and Yanbu’ has issued detailed local environmental regulations applicable to facilities located within the Royal Commission
areas and contractors operating therein (i.e., the Jubail Industrial City Royal Commission Environmental Regulations of September 1999).
Aramco separately requires compliance with environmental standards in certain circumstances. For example, Aramco administers the oil
loading terminals at Ras Tanura, Ju’aymah and several smaller terminals independently of the Saudi Ports Authority.
Saudization
The Kingdom has promulgated a Saudization policy (Saudization) implemented by the Ministry of Human Resources and Social
Development. Saudization requires Saudi companies to ensure that a certain percentage of their workforce comprises Saudi nationals.
Further, investors in the energy sector are encouraged to abide by the Kingdom’s broad policies of ensuring a commitment to the
training and employment of Saudi nationals. The Nitaqat Saudization Program (the Nitaqat Program) was approved pursuant to the
Ministry of Labor and Social Development (predecessor to the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Development) Resolution No.
4040, dated 12/10/1432H (corresponding to September 10, 2011), based on Council of Ministers Resolution No. 50, dated 21/5/1415H
(corresponding to October 27, 1994), which was applied as at 12/10/1432H (corresponding to September 10, 2011). The Ministry of
Human Resources and Social Development established the Nitaqat Program to encourage establishments to hire Saudi nationals. The
Nitaqat Program assesses an establishment’s Saudization performance based on specific ranges of compliance, which are platinum,
green (which is further divided into low, medium and high ranges), yellow and red. Aramco has been classified under the “High
Green” category, which means that Aramco complies with the current Saudization requirements, which accordingly allow the
compliant companies to secure work visas.
Moreover, the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Development has approved a new amendment to the Nitaqat Program
under the “Nitaqat Mawzon” Program in order to improve the marketplace's performance and development and to eliminate
non-productive nationalization. It was intended to come into effect on 12/3/1438H (corresponding to December 11, 2016), but in
response to private sector demands for additional time to achieve the nationalization rate, the Ministry of Human Resources and
Social Development postponed the program until further notice and no new implementation date has been set. Under the “Nitaqat
Mawzon” program, points would be calculated based on five factors: (i) the nationalization rate; (ii) the average wage for Saudi
workers; (iii) the percentage of female nationalization; (iv) job sustainability for Saudi nationals; and (v) the percentage of Saudi
nationals with high wages. Currently, entities continue to be ranked on the basis of a system of rolling averages which calculate
average weekly “Saudization” over a 26-week period.
142 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 145]
Additional legal information Additional financial
and legal information
Aramco
The Company was established in the Kingdom as a company with limited liability by virtue of Royal Decree No. M/8 dated 4/4/1409H
(corresponding to November 13, 1988) to assume the privileges and rights of the Arabian American Oil Company. On January 1, 2018,
the Company was converted into a Saudi joint stock company pursuant to Council of Ministers Resolution No. 180 dated 1/4/1439H
(corresponding to December 19, 2017) and registered in the city of Dhahran under commercial registration No. 2052101150 dated
11/07/1439H (corresponding to March 28, 2018) with Saudi Arabian Oil Company as its official name. Its registered head office is
located at P.O. Box 5000, Dhahran 31311, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Its share capital is sixty billion Saudi Riyals (SAR 60,000,000,000),
consisting of two hundred billion (200,000,000,000) fully paid ordinary shares with no par value. Aramco’s primary operating
segments are Upstream and Downstream, which are supported by corporate activities (for further details please refer to Section 3:
Results and performance).
On December 11, 2019, the Company completed its IPO and its ordinary shares were listed on Tadawul. In connection with the
IPO, the Government, being the sole owner of the Company’s shares at such time, sold 3.45 billion ordinary shares, or 1.73% of the
Company’s share capital. In addition, concurrent with the IPO, the Company acquired 117.2 million of its ordinary shares from the
Government for a cash payment of SAR 3,750 million which are being classified as treasury shares. These shares are for use by the
Company for its employee share plans. On February 13, 2022, the Government announced the transfer of 4% of the Company’s total
share capital to the Public Investment Fund (PIF). Therefore, the current ownership of the Government in the Company is 94.19%.
Material agreements
Aramco has entered into a number of agreements for the purposes of its business. The following is a summary of those agreements
that Aramco considers material to its business. Aramco believes that all such agreements, in addition to the key provisions thereunder,
have been included in this section and that there are no other agreements that are material in the context of its business. These
summaries do not purport to describe all the applicable terms and conditions of such agreements and are qualified in their entirety
by the respective agreements.
The Concession
Background
The Arabian American Oil Company Concession Agreement was ratified on 4/2/1352H (corresponding to May 29, 1933) and granted
Arabian American Oil Company certain exclusive rights, including the right to explore, drill, recover and treat crude oil and other
hydrocarbons located within certain areas of the Kingdom (which were revised and grew over time), with limited territorial exceptions.
Pursuant to Royal Decree No. M/8 dated 4/4/1409H (corresponding to November 13, 1988) approving Aramco’s original articles,
Aramco enjoyed all the privileges and rights provided under the Arabian American Oil Company Concession Agreement, and all
subsequent supplementary documents, agreements, Governmental orders and decisions in connection therewith (collectively, the
“Original Concession”). Effective 6/4/1439H (corresponding to December 24, 2017), and in accordance with the Hydrocarbons Law,
the Government, represented by the Minister of MEIM (predecessor to the Minister of Energy), and Aramco entered into the revised
Concession Agreement (the “Concession”), which was adopted under Royal Decree No. (M/12) dated 18/1/1441H (corresponding
to September 17, 2019) and replaced and superseded in its entirety the Original Concession on such date (the “Concession
Effective Date”). Further, on 20/1/1441H (corresponding to September 19, 2019), and in accordance with the Hydrocarbons Law,
the Government, represented by the Minister of Energy, and Aramco entered into an amendment to the Concession, with effect
from January 1, 2020) (the “Concession Amendment”).
Grant of rights
The Government grants Aramco the following rights to be exercised at Aramco’s own responsibility during the term of the Concession:
• The exclusive right to explore, drill, prospect, appraise, develop, extract, recover and produce hydrocarbons in the Concession Area;
• The non-exclusive right to manufacture, refine and treat production and to market, sell, transport and export such production;
• The exclusive right to market and distribute hydrocarbons, petroleum products and LPG in the Kingdom, with Aramco’s commitment
to meeting all the domestic needs for such products in accordance with the consumption requirements thereof through domestic
production or imports in accordance with laws issued by the Government;
• The right to build, own and operate relevant facilities and assets as may be necessary or desirable to perform Aramco’s operations
within the Reserved Areas;
• Certain rights to acquire and use land, water and other natural products in connection with Aramco’s operations;
• The right to purchase, lease, import or otherwise obtain all materials, equipment and any other supplies required for Aramco’s operations;
• The right to conduct such other activity related to the foregoing subject to the provisions of the Concession and applicable law; and
• The right to receive Government assistance in securing the rights granted in the Concession, obtaining permits, licenses and other
special approvals and obtaining access, rights of way and water rights from third parties necessary for Aramco’s operations.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 143
[Page 146]
Additional legal information continued
Under the Concession, Aramco is required to obtain the necessary licenses, permits and approvals that may be required pursuant to
the Hydrocarbons Law, the Law of Gas Supplies and Pricing and the regulations issued pursuant to these laws. All hydrocarbons in the
Kingdom are owned by the Kingdom, and upon extraction or recovery of such hydrocarbons by Aramco, title to such hydrocarbons
shall automatically pass to Aramco at the ownership transfer point. Aramco has no rights to any natural resources existing in the
Concession Area other than hydrocarbons except as otherwise provided in the Concession.
The rights granted to Aramco under the Concession are subject to the Hydrocarbons Law and other applicable law, including production
decisions issued by the Government pursuant to its sovereign authority. Aramco may not sell to any entity any hydrocarbons or derivatives
therefrom in violation of decisions the Government considers necessary for the protection of supreme security interests for the Kingdom in
times of war or other emergency in international relations.
Term
The Concession will remain effective for 40 years from the Concession Effective Date, unless terminated earlier in accordance with
its terms.
The Government will issue a decision to extend the Concession for a period of 20 years on the 30th anniversary of the Concession
Effective Date, provided Aramco has fulfilled the following conditions: (a) Aramco has exerted reasonable efforts to maximize reserves
and their recovery in the Concession Area, taking into consideration production decisions and hydrocarbons market conditions; (b)
Aramco has conducted its operations in a manner that (i) is economically efficient, (ii) enhances the productivity of the reservoirs in the
long-term in the Concession Area and (iii) supports good management of hydrocarbons, in all cases, according to the Hydrocarbons
Law; and (c) Aramco generally has conducted its activities and operations in the Kingdom in an economically efficient manner thereby
enhancing the efficiency of the Kingdom’s economy.
If the Concession is extended as described in the previous paragraph, the Concession may be amended and extended for an additional
40 years following the 60th anniversary of the Concession Effective Date, if Aramco provides the Government with notice confirming
its intent to extend the Concession, at any time from the beginning of the 50th anniversary until the end of the 53rd anniversary of the
Concession Effective Date, provided that the parties undertake exclusive negotiations for a two-year period (which may be extended
or reduced by the parties), commencing at the end of the 53rd anniversary of the Concession Effective Date, to reach an agreement
on the terms and conditions of such amendment and extension. If the Government and Aramco are unable to reach agreement on the
amendment and extension during such exclusive negotiation period, and the Government elects to negotiate with any third party to
enter into an agreement with respect to any hydrocarbon activities or operations in the Concession Area, Aramco will have a priority
right to enter into an agreement with the Government under the same terms and conditions as agreed between the Government and
such third party, provided that Aramco notifies the Government of its desire to exercise the priority right within 120 days of its receipt of
a written notice from the Government that includes the entire draft agreement with such third party with respect to such hydrocarbon
activities and operations.
Royalty and taxes
Commencing January 1, 2017, royalties payable to the Government with respect to the Company’s operations were calculated as follows:
• With respect to the Company’s production of crude oil and condensates, including those used by the Company in its operations,
royalties were calculated based on a progressive scheme applied to crude oil and condensate production value. Production was
valued based on the Company’s official selling prices. An effective royalty rate was applied to production value and was based each
month on the average daily price quotes for Brent crude on the Intercontinental Exchange (or any successor exchange) for each day
during such period. The effective royalty rate was determined based on a baseline rate of 20% applied to the value of production at
prices up to $70 per barrel, a marginal rate of 40% applied to the value of production at prices above $70 per barrel up to $100 per
barrel and a marginal rate of 50% applied to the value of production at prices above $100 per barrel.
• With respect to the Company’s production of natural gas, ethane and NGL, excluding those volumes used by the Company for
upstream operations and related operations (including transportation, pipelines and storage and export facilities, fractionation
plants, gas and NGL plants), royalties are calculated based on a flat royalty rate of 12.5% applied to a factor established by the
Ministry of Energy. As at December 31, 2021, the factor to which this royalty is applied is $0.035 per mmBTU for NGL (propane,
butane and natural gasoline) and $0.00 per mmBTU for natural gas (methane) and ethane. The Minister of Energy may amend
the price on which such values are based, taking into account the price that achieves the targeted internal rate of return set by
the Minister of Energy in coordination with the Company.
Commencing January 1, 2020, the Concession Amendment amended the royalties payable to the Government with respect to the
Company’s production of crude oil and condensates, including those used by the Company in its operations, so that the effective royalty
rate is determined based on a baseline rate of 15% applied to the value of production at prices up to $70 per barrel, a marginal rate of
45% applied to the value of production at prices above $70 per barrel up to $100 per barrel and a marginal rate of 80% applied to the
value of production at prices above $100 per barrel.
144 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 147]
Additional financial
and legal information
In order to increase gas production to meet the needs of the Kingdom, the Government may choose not to collect royalties on natural
gas, NGL (including ethane) and condensates for a period specified by the Government with respect to any field as required by the
economics of such field’s development. Pursuant to the Ministry of Energy’s authority under the Concession, on February 25, 2018,
the Ministry of Energy decided not to collect royalties from the Company on condensate production for a grace period of five years
beginning on January 1, 2018. On September 17, 2019, the Ministry of Energy issued Ministerial Resolution No. 1/422/1441, dated
18/1/1441H (corresponding to September 17, 2019), which extends the period for which the Company will not be obligated to pay
royalties on condensate production after the current five-year period for an additional 10-year period, which may be further extended
for subsequent 10-year periods, unless the Government determines the economics impacting gas field development do not warrant
such an extension.
The Government has the option to take all or part of the royalty in-kind from the produced hydrocarbons.
Acquisition of 70% equity interest in SABIC
On June 16, 2020, Aramco acquired the PIF’s 70% equity interest in SABIC for total consideration of $69.1 billion. SABIC operates in
over 50 countries and produces a range of chemicals. Aramco believes that purchasing this majority interest in SABIC advances its
strategy to increase the proportion of petrochemicals production in its downstream portfolio and supports Aramco’s downstream
growth ambitions. In addition, Aramco believes that the acquisition facilitates the application of SABIC’s expertise in the chemicals
industry to Aramco’s existing and future integrated downstream facilities.
The March 27, 2019, purchase agreement provided that the purchase price for the acquisition would be paid on the closing date in the
form of a cash payment equal to 50% of the purchase price (to be adjusted for certain expenses) and a seller loan in an amount equal to
50% of the purchase price with the last payment due on or before December 31, 2021. On October 6, 2019, Aramco and the PIF agreed
to amend the payment terms to provide that, on the closing date, 36% of the purchase price (to be adjusted for certain expenses) would
be paid in cash and 64% would be paid in the form of a seller loan with the last payment due on or before September 30, 2025.
On June 16, 2020, Aramco and the PIF agreed to further amend the payment terms to provide that the entire purchase price would be
paid over several installments pursuant to a seller loan provided by the PIF. A loan payment of $7.0 billion was paid on August 2, 2020,
and another loan payment of $5.0 billion was made on April 7, 2021.
As at December 31, 2021, future loan payments, which are represented by promissory notes, are payable between April 7, 2022, and
April 7, 2028 (the last payment), as follows:
1. On or before April 7, 2022, an amount equal to $8.5 billion plus a loan charge of $500 million (subject to reduction by $300 million
in the event that the accelerated payment described below is made);
2. On or before April 7, 2023, an amount equal to $10.5 billion plus a loan charge of $500 million;
3. On or before April 7, 2024, an amount equal to $10.5 billion plus a loan charge of $600 million;
4. On or before April 7, 2025, an amount equal to $10.5 billion plus a loan charge of $800 million;
5. On or before April 7, 2026, an amount equal to $17.1 billion (provided that (a) $3.0 billion of such amount is subject to acceleration
as described below and (b) such amount will be reduced by the amount of any withholding taxes and similar amounts that Aramco
incurs with respect to payments made under any promissory note as a result of the PIF’s transfer thereof to a transferee who is not
tax resident in the Kingdom) plus a loan charge of $1.5 billion;
6. On or before April 7, 2027, a loan charge of $1.0 billion (subject to reduction to reflect certain withholding amounts as described
above); and
7. On or before April 7, 2028, a loan charge of $1.0 billion (subject to reduction to reflect certain withholding amounts as described
above).
In the event that the average Brent price during 2021 met or exceeded $60.0 per barrel and Aramco’s average daily production of crude oil
during 2021 exceeded ten million barrels per day, Aramco had agreed to pay $3.0 billion of the payment otherwise due in April 2026 on
April 7, 2022 (the “Early Payment Event”). At year-end December 31, 2021, it was determined that the relevant conditions were not met
during 2021 and as a result, no accelerated payment will be required in April 2022. If the accelerated payment would have been required,
it would have reduced the principal amount that would otherwise be payable on or before April 2026 by $3.0 billion and the loan charge
in April 2022 would have been reduced from $500 million to $200 million.
On January 24, 2022, Aramco, in agreement with PIF, made a partial prepayment of $7.6 billion, which has reduced the principal amounts
of two promissory notes by $7.0 billion and $1.0 billion that were payable on or before April 7, 2024 and April 7, 2026, respectively.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 145
[Page 148]
Additional legal information continued
Subject to the exceptions set forth below, the promissory notes are freely transferable and assignable and may be pledged by the PIF.
However, if the PIF receives any offer or commitment of financing which would include a transfer of any promissory note, Aramco may
within 30 days of receiving notice of the offer or commitment, notify the PIF in writing of its intent to purchase all or a portion of the
promissory notes to be transferred on the same terms. To the extent Aramco does not elect to purchase the promissory notes to be
transferred, the PIF may transfer such promissory note during the subsequent 120-day period. In addition, the PIF may not transfer,
assign or pledge prior to April 8, 2022, promissory notes with aggregate initial principal outstanding balances of (i) $300 million and
a payment date of April 7, 2022, and (ii) $3.0 billion and a payment date of April 7, 2026; provided that, if Aramco determines that
the Early Payment Event will not occur by April 8, 2022, it is required to notify the PIF and the restrictions on transfer will terminate.
Each such promissory note must be surrendered for cancellation in the event the accelerated payment described above is made.
Furthermore, the PIF may not transfer, assign or pledge at any time promissory notes with aggregate initial principal outstanding
balances of (i) $3.5 billion and a payment date of April 7, 2026, (ii) $250 million and a payment date of April 7, 2027, and (iii)
$250 million and a payment date of April 7, 2028. Aramco currently intends to repay the promissory notes in a phased manner
through cash from operations, external debt financing or a combination thereof.
As part of the June 16, 2020, amendment to the purchase agreement, Aramco agreed to enter into foreign exchange transactions
with banking institutions mutually agreed to between Aramco and the PIF to exchange U.S. dollars for Saudi Riyals. The aggregate
amount of these foreign exchange transactions is (i) up to $2.0 billion between June 16, and August 2, 2020, (ii) up to $3.0 billion
in 2021 and (iii) up to $2.0 billion in 2022. In connection therewith, between June 16, and August 2, 2020, Aramco exchanged an
aggregate amount of $2.0 billion for Saudi Riyals.
Intellectual property
Aramco assesses, develops and incorporates new technology in a manner tailored to Aramco’s operations to protect business interests,
enhance its operational efficiency, increase profitability and reduce the environmental impact of its operations. The scale of Aramco’s
hydrocarbon reserves and operational capabilities enable it to realize significant benefits and value from otherwise marginal
technological benefits.
Aramco focuses its technology initiatives in two primary areas: upstream and downstream. In addition, Aramco is working on
several focused initiatives, including reductions in the environmental impact of operations and advancements in digital technologies.
Upstream technology development is directed primarily to improving methods for discovering new hydrocarbon reserves, improving
oil recoveries, increasing productivity, discovering novel catalysts and reducing lifting costs. Downstream technology development is
dedicated primarily to maximizing value across the hydrocarbon chain and finding new and improved methods of producing products.
Aramco’s environmental impact initiatives include efforts aimed at producing low-carbon intensity crude oil, advancing efficient
transport and driving high-impact low-carbon intensity solutions. Aramco’s digital technologies include innovations that leverage
machine learning, artificial intelligence, and data analytics.
Litigation
From time to time, Aramco is subject to various claims, lawsuits, regulatory investigations and other legal matters arising in the ordinary
course of business, including contractual claims relating to construction projects and agreements to render services undertaken by
Aramco, claims for title to land and environmental claims. Additionally, Aramco in the past has been subject to antitrust claims.
Furthermore, exports of crude oil, refined products and petrochemicals by Aramco or its affiliates to foreign countries may be affected
by litigation, regulatory actions, investigations, disputes or agreements that lead to the imposition of import trade measures, including
anti-dumping and countervailing duties, safeguard measures, import licensing and customs requirements, and new or increased
tariffs, quotas or embargoes. The possibility and effect of any such measures will depend on the domestic laws in the relevant country
to which the applicable products are being exported and applicable international trade agreements. Foreign countries may take such
measures for political or other reasons, including reasons unrelated to Aramco actions or operations.
The outcome of litigation and other legal matters, including government investigations or other trade actions, is inherently uncertain.
Aramco believes it has valid defenses to the legal matters currently pending against it as a party. Certain trade actions that do not
involve Aramco as a party may instead involve its products or industry, other products or industries impacting its operations, or the
countries in which it operates. Trade actions may be taken without prior notice, or with retroactive effect. Actual outcomes of these
legal, regulatory and other proceedings may materially differ from current estimates. To date, none of these types of litigation or
trade matters have had a material impact on Aramco’s operations or financial position. Except with respect to the Al-Qarqani case
as described in Section 5: Risk, Aramco believes that it is not presently a party to any legal, regulatory or other proceedings that,
if determined adversely to it, could reasonably be expected, individually or taken together, to have a material adverse effect on
Aramco’s business, financial position or results of operations.
146 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 149]
Additional financial
and legal information
Debt instruments issued by subsidiaries
Balance as at
December
All amounts in millions SAR unless otherwise stated Debt instrument 31, 20211
Motiva Enterprises LLC Debentures 7,209
Sadara Chemical Company ("Sadara") Sukuk 5,585
Saudi Aramco Sukuk Company Sukuk 11,250
Saudi Aramco Total Refining and Petrochemical Company Sukuk 1,880
Saudi Basic Industries Corporation ("SABIC") Debentures 11,982
S-Oil Corporation Debentures 8,659
SA Global Sukuk Limited Sukuk 22,500
1. Represents 100% of the balance as reported in the respective subsidiaries’ balance sheet.
Shares issued by subsidiaries
The Company holds direct or indirect ownership in the following domestic and foreign subsidiaries1:
Share capital
Place of business/
country of Percentage Amount
Name of entity incorporation ownership Principal business activity Currency (millions)
A. Wholly owned
4 Rivers Energy LLC USA 100% Retail fuel operations USD –
Aramco (Beijing) Venture Management People’s Republic
Consultant Company. Ltd of China 100% Investment USD 1.8
Aramco Affiliated Services Company USA 100% Support services USD 0.0
Purchasing and
Aramco Asia India Private Limited India 100% other services INR 2.9
Purchasing and
Aramco Asia Japan K.K. Japan 100% other services JPY 738.2
Purchasing and
Aramco Asia Korea Ltd. South Korea 100% other services KRW 4,302.9
Purchasing and
Aramco Asia Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore 100% other services USD 3.9
Aramco Associated Company USA 100% Aircraft operations USD 0.0
Aramco Capital Company, LLC USA 100% Aircraft leasing USD –
Aramco Chemicals Company Saudi Arabia 100% Chemicals SAR 75.0
Aramco Far East (Beijing) Business People’s Republic Petrochemical purchasing/
Services Co., Ltd. of China 100% sales and other services USD 25.0
Aramco Financial Services Company USA 100% Financing USD 0.0
Aramco Gas Pipelines Company Saudi Arabia 100% Gas operations SAR –
Production and sale
Aramco Gulf Operations Company Ltd. Saudi Arabia 100% of crude oil USD 0.3
Research and
Aramco Innovations LLC Russia 100% commercialization USD 0.2
British Virgin
Aramco International Company Limited Islands 100% Support services USD 0.0
Aramco Lubricants and Retail Company Saudi Arabia 100% Retail fuel marketing SAR 0.2
Aramco Overseas Company Azerbaijan Azerbaijan 100% Support services USD 0.0
Purchasing and
Aramco Overseas Company B.V. Netherlands 100% other services USD 11,214.5
Personnel and other
Aramco Overseas Company Spain, S.L. Spain 100% support services USD 0.0
Personnel and other
Aramco Overseas Company UK Limited United Kingdom 100% support services USD 0.0
Personnel and other
Aramco Overseas Egypt LLC Egypt 100% support services EGP 0.1
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 147
[TABLE DATA]
7,209
5,585
11,250
1,880
11,982
8,659
22,500
[Page 150]
Additional legal information continued
Share capital
Place of business/
country of Percentage Amount
Name of entity incorporation ownership Principal business activity Currency (millions)
Aramco Overseas Indonesia PT PMA Indonesia 100% Project management support IDR 2,500.0
Personnel and other
Aramco Overseas Malaysia SDN. BHD Malaysia 100% support services USD 0.1
Petrochemical
Aramco Performance Materials LLC USA 100% manufacture and sales USD 0.9
Purchasing, engineering and
Aramco Services Company USA 100% other services USD 0.0
Aramco Shared Benefits Company USA 100% Benefits administration USD 0.0
Importing, exporting and
trading of crude oil, refined
Aramco Trading Company Saudi Arabia 100% and chemical products USD 35.0
Importing and exporting
Aramco Trading Fujairah FZE UAE 100% refined products AED 0.2
Importing and exporting
Aramco Trading Limited United Kingdom 100% refined products GBP 0.0
Aramco Trading Singapore PTE. LTD Singapore 100% Marketing and sales support USD 4.5
Aramco Venture Management Consultant
Company LLC USA 100% Consulting services n/a n/a
Aramco Ventures Holdings Limited Guernsey 100% Investment USD –
Aramco Ventures Investments Limited Guernsey 100% Investment USD –
Development, manufacture,
and marketing of high-
ARLANXEO Holding B.V. Netherlands 100% performance rubber EUR 0.0
Development, manufacture,
and marketing of high-
ARLANXEO Belgium N.V. Belgium 100% performance rubber EUR 108.4
Development, manufacture,
and marketing of high-
ARLANXEO Branch Offices B.V. Netherlands 100% performance rubber EUR 0.1
Development, manufacture,
and marketing of high-
ARLANXEO Brasil S.A. Brazil 100% performance rubber BRL 1,264.0
Development, manufacture,
and marketing of high-
ARLANXEO Canada Inc. Canada 100% performance rubber CAD 46.9
Development, manufacture,
and marketing of high-
ARLANXEO Deutschland GmbH Germany 100% performance rubber EUR 0.0
Development, manufacture,
and marketing of high-
ARLANXEO Elastomères France S.A.S. France 100% performance rubber EUR 4.0
Development, manufacture,
and marketing of high-
ARLANXEO Emulsion Rubber France S.A.S. France 100% performance rubber EUR 19.1
Development, manufacture,
ARLANXEO High Performance Elastomers People's Republic and marketing of high-
(Changzhou) Co., Ltd. of China 100% performance rubber CNY 1,143.2
Development, manufacture,
and marketing of high-
ARLANXEO India Private Limited India 100% performance rubber INR 22.5
Development, manufacture,
and marketing of high-
ARLANXEO Netherlands B.V. Netherlands 100% performance rubber EUR 30.4
Development, manufacture,
and marketing of high-
ARLANXEO Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore 100% performance rubber USD 378.6
Development, manufacture,
and marketing of high-
ARLANXEO Switzerland S.A. Switzerland 100% performance rubber USD 0.7
148 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 151]
Additional financial
and legal information
Share capital
Place of business/
country of Percentage Amount
Name of entity incorporation ownership Principal business activity Currency (millions)
Development, manufacture,
and marketing of high-
ARLANXEO USA LLC USA 100% performance rubber USD –
Aurora Capital Holdings LLC USA 100% Real estate holdings USD –
Bolanter Corporation N.V. Curaçao 100% Crude oil storage USD 0.0
Briar Rose Ventures LLC USA 100% Real estate holdings USD –
Canyon Lake Holdings LLC USA 100% Retail fuel operations USD –
Petrochemical
Excellent Performance Chemicals Company Saudi Arabia 100% manufacture and sales USD 0.3
Investment management
of post-employment
Investment Management Company Saudi Arabia 100% benefit plans USD 0.1
Motiva Chemicals LLC USA 100% Petrochemical manufacture USD 1,889.9
Motiva Enterprises LLC USA 100% Refining and marketing USD 9,558.7
Motiva Pipeline LLC USA 100% Pipeline transport USD –
Purchasing and sale
of petroleum goods and
Motiva Trading LLC USA 100% other services USD 75.0
Mukamala International Investments Company Saudi Arabia 100% Investment USD 0.1
Mukamala Oil Field Services Limited Saudi Arabia 100% Oil field services USD 461.2
Pandlewood Corporation N.V. Curaçao 100% Financing USD 0.0
Pedernales Ventures LLC USA 100% Retail fuel operations USD –
Pedernales Ventures II LLC USA 100% Investment USD –
SAEV Europe Ltd. United Kingdom 100% Investment USD 0.0
SAEV Guernsey 1 Ltd. Guernsey 100% Investment USD 2.4
SAEV Guernsey Holdings Ltd. Guernsey 100% Investment USD –
Saudi Aramco Asia Company Ltd. Saudi Arabia 100% Investment USD 0.1
Saudi Aramco Capital Company Limited Guernsey 100% Investment USD –
Saudi Aramco Development Company Saudi Arabia 100% Investment USD 0.1
Saudi Aramco Energy Ventures US LLC USA 100% Investment USD –
Saudi Aramco Energy Ventures LLC Saudi Arabia 100% Investment USD 0.1
Saudi Aramco Entrepreneurship Center
Company Ltd. Saudi Arabia 100% Financing USD 0.1
Saudi Aramco Entrepreneurship Venture
Company, Ltd. Saudi Arabia 100% Investment SAR 0.5
Saudi Aramco Jubail Refinery Company Saudi Arabia 100% Refining SAR 1,600.0
Saudi Aramco Power Company Saudi Arabia 100% Power generation USD 0.0
Saudi Aramco Sukuk Company Saudi Arabia 100% Investment SAR 0.5
Research and
Saudi Aramco Technologies Saudi Arabia 100% commercialization USD 0.1
Research and
Saudi Aramco Upstream Technology Company Saudi Arabia 100% commercialization USD 0.1
Saudi Petroleum International, Inc. USA 100% Marketing support services USD 0.0
Marketing support and
Saudi Petroleum Overseas, Ltd. United Kingdom 100% tanker services GBP 0.0
British Virgin Marketing support and
Saudi Petroleum, Ltd. Islands 100% tanker services USD 0.0
Saudi Refining, Inc. USA 100% Refining and marketing USD 0.0
Stellar Insurance, Ltd. Bermuda 100% Insurance USD 0.1
Marine management
Vela International Marine Ltd. Liberia 100% and transportation USD 0.0
Wisayah Global Investment Company Saudi Arabia 100% Investment services SAR 0.5
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 149
[Page 152]
Additional legal information continued
Share capital
Place of business/
country of Percentage Amount
Name of entity incorporation ownership Principal business activity Currency (millions)
B. Unconsolidated structured entity
Energy City Development Company Saudi Arabia 100% Industrial development n/a n/a
Energy City Operating Company Saudi Arabia 100% Industrial development n/a n/a
C. Non-wholly owned2
Aramco Oil Pipelines Company Saudi Arabia 51% Pipeline transport SAR 0.1
Aramco Training Services Company USA 49% Training USD 0.0
Development, manufacture,
ARLANXEO-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical People’s Republic and marketing of high-
Industries Co., Ltd. of China 50% performance rubber CNY 288.3
Johns Hopkins Aramco Healthcare Company Saudi Arabia 80% Health care USD 25.0
Production and sale of
Saudi Aramco Base Oil Company Saudi Arabia 70% petroleum based lubricants SAR 0.0
Saudi Aramco Nabors Drilling Company Saudi Arabia 50% Drilling USD 40.0
Saudi Aramco Rowan Offshore
Drilling Company Saudi Arabia 50% Drilling USD 50.0
S-Oil Corporation South Korea 61.6% Refining USD 265.2
S-Oil Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore 61.6% Marketing support SGD 1.2
The Independent Purchasing and sale of
S-International Ltd. State of Samoa 61.6% petroleum goods USD 0.0
Saudi Basic Industries Corporation ("SABIC")3 Saudi Arabia 70% Holding SAR 30,000
SABIC Luxembourg S.à r.l. (“SLUX”) Luxembourg 70% Holding USD 34.4
SABIC Industrial Investments Company
(“SIIC”) Saudi Arabia 70% Holding SAR 300.0
SABIC Agri-Nutrients Company (“SABIC AN”) Saudi Arabia 35.1% Agri-Nutrients SAR 4760.4
Arabian Petrochemical Company
(“PETROKEMYA”)4 Saudi Arabia 70% Toller SAR 1,955.5
Saudi Iron and Steel Company (“HADEED”) Saudi Arabia 70% Metals SAR 1,070.0
SABIC Investment and Local Content
Development Company (“NUSANED”) Saudi Arabia 70% Investment SAR 10.0
SABIC Supply Chain Services Limited
Company (“SSCS”) Saudi Arabia 70% Petrochemical SAR 0.5
Saudi European Petrochemical Company
("IBN ZAHR") Saudi Arabia 56% Petrochemical SAR 1,025.7
Jubail United Petrochemical Company
("UNITED") Saudi Arabia 52.5% Petrochemical SAR 2,495.6
Saudi Methanol Company (“AR-RAZI”) Saudi Arabia 52.5% Toller SAR 259.0
National Industrial Gases Company (“GAS”) Saudi Arabia 49% Toller SAR 248.0
Yanbu National Petrochemical Company
(“YANSAB”) Saudi Arabia 36.4% Toller SAR 5,625.0
National Methanol Company (“IBN-SINA”) Saudi Arabia 35% Toller SAR 558.0
Arabian Industrial Fibers Company
(“IBN RUSHD”) Saudi Arabia 33.6% Toller SAR 2,000.0
Petrochemical
SABIC Innovative Plastics Argentina SRL Argentina 70% manufacture and sales USD 33.5
SABIC High Performance Plastic (“SHPP”) Petrochemical
Argentina SRL Argentina 70% manufacture and sales USD 3.0
SABIC Australia Pty Ltd. Australia 70% Holding AUD 110.2
SABIC Innovative Plastics Aus GmbH Austria 70% Holding EUR 0.2
SABIC Innovative Plastics GmbH & Co. KG Austria 70% Agent EUR 164.7
SABIC Innovative Plastics South America- Petrochemical
Indústria e Comércio de Plásticos Ltda Brazil 70% manufacture and sales BRL 318.8
SHPP South America Comércio de Plásticos Petrochemical
Ltda Brazil 70% manufacture and sales BRL 24.8
NV Pijpleiding Antwerpen-Limburg-Luik
(PALL) Belgium 70% Support services EUR 12.3
150 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 153]
Additional financial
and legal information
Share capital
Place of business/
country of Percentage Amount
Name of entity incorporation ownership Principal business activity Currency (millions)
SABIC Belgium NV Belgium 70% Petrochemical EUR 210.1
SHPP Canada, Inc. Canada 70% Petrochemical CAD 209.1
Petrochemical
SABIC Petrochemicals Canada, Inc. Canada 70% manufacture and sales CAD 0.0
People's Republic
SABIC Innovative Plastics (China) Co., Ltd. of China 70% Petrochemical USD 392.2
SABIC Innovative Plastics (Chongqing) Co., People's Republic Petrochemical
Ltd. of China 70% manufacture and sales USD 112.5
SABIC Innovative Plastics International People's Republic
Trading (Shanghai) Ltd. of China 70% Reseller USD 1.2
SABIC Innovative Plastics Management People's Republic
(Shanghai) Co., Ltd. of China 70% Support services CNY 7.5
People's Republic
SHPP (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. of China 70% Petrochemical USD 432.7
People's Republic
SABIC (Shanghai) Trading Co. Ltd. of China 70% Reseller CNY 16.9
SABIC (China) Research & People's Republic
Development Co. Ltd. of China 70% Technology and innovation CNY 170.6
People's Republic
SABIC China Holding Co. Ltd. of China 70% Petrochemical USD 0.8
SABIC Innovative Plastics Czech s.r.o. Czech Republic 70% Agent CZK 0.0
SHPP Czech s.r.o. Czech Republic 70% Reseller EUR 0.0
SABIC Innovative Plastics Denmark Aps Denmark 70% Agent DKK 0.1
SABIC Nordic A/S Denmark 70% Agent DKK 2.0
SABIC Innovative Plastics Finland Oy Finland 70% Agent EUR 3.0
SHPP Finland Oy Finland 70% Reseller EUR 0.0
SABIC France S.A.S. France 70% Reseller EUR 1.9
SABIC Innovative Plastics France S.A.S. France 70% Agent EUR 4.5
SHPP France S.A.S. France 70% Reseller EUR 9.8
SABIC Deutschland GmbH Germany 70% Reseller EUR 0.1
SABIC Holding Deutschland GmbH Germany 70% Holding EUR 0.1
SABIC Innovative Plastics GmbH Germany 70% Agent EUR 0.5
SABIC Innovative Plastics Holding
Germany GmbH Germany 70% Holding EUR 0.3
SABIC Polyolefine GmbH Germany 70% Toller EUR 0.1
SHPP Germany GmbH Germany 70% Reseller EUR 0.1
SABIC Greece M.E.P.E. Greece 70% Agent EUR 0.1
SABIC Innovative Plastics Hong Kong Ltd. Hong Kong 70% Reseller USD 279.7
SABIC Innovative Plastics SIT Holding Ltd. Hong Kong 70% Holding USD 27.4
SABIC Innovative Plastics Taiwan Holding Ltd. Hong Kong 70% Petrochemical USD 92.7
SHPP Hong Kong Hong Kong 70% Reseller USD 12.7
SABIC Hungary Kft. Hungary 70% Agent HUF 0.1
SABIC Innovative Plastics Kereskedelmi Kft. Hungary 70% Agent HUF 0.1
SHPP Hungary Kft. Hungary 70% Reseller EUR 0.0
SABIC India Pvt Ltd. India 70% Agent INR 3.3
Petrochemical
SABIC Innovative Plastics India Private Ltd. India 70% manufacture and sales INR 34.4
SABIC R&T Pvt Ltd. India 70% Technology and innovation INR 259.7
Petrochemical
High Performance Plastics India Pvt Ltd. India 70% manufacture and sales INR 0.0
SABIC Innovative Plastics Italy Srl Italy 70% Toller EUR 69.8
SABIC Italia Srl Italy 70% Reseller EUR 0.5
SABIC Sales Italy Srl Italy 70% Agent EUR 0.0
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 151
[Page 154]
Additional legal information continued
Share capital
Place of business/
country of Percentage Amount
Name of entity incorporation ownership Principal business activity Currency (millions)
SHPP Italy Srl Italy 70% Toller EUR 0.0
SHPP Sales Italy Srl Italy 70% Reseller EUR 0.0
Petrochemical
SHPP Japan LLC Japan 70% manufacture and sales JPY 276.8
SABIC Petrochemicals Japan LLC Japan 70% Petrochemical JPY 3.6
SABIC Korea Ltd. South Korea 70% Petrochemical KRW 86.7
SHPP Korea Ltd. South Korea 70% Reseller KRW 63.6
SABIC Innovative Plastics Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia 70% Agent MYR 8.5
SHPP Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia 70% Reseller USD 0.9
SABIC Innovative Plastics Mexico S de RL de Petrochemical
CV Mexico 70% manufacture and sales USD 36.2
High Performance Plastics Manufacturing Petrochemical
Mexico S de RL de CV Mexico 70% manufacture and sales USD 13.8
Petrochemical
BV Snij-Unie HiFi Netherlands 70% manufacture and sales EUR 0.0
SABIC Capital B.V. Netherlands 70% Financing USD 0.1
SABIC Capital I B.V. Netherlands 70% Financing USD 0.1
SABIC Capital II B.V. Netherlands 70% Financing USD 0.1
Petrochemical Pipeline Services B.V. Netherlands 70% Support services EUR 13.6
SABIC Europe B.V. Netherlands 70% Holding EUR 747.1
SABIC Global Technologies B.V. Netherlands 70% Technology and innovation USD 0.1
SABIC International Holdings B.V. Netherlands 70% Holding USD 727.9
Principal (Manufacturing,
SABIC Innovative Plastics B.V. Netherlands 70% Sales, R&D) EUR 648.6
SABIC Innovative Plastics GP B.V. Netherlands 70% Holding USD 0.1
SABIC Innovative Plastics Holding B.V. Netherlands 70% Holding USD 0.1
SABIC Innovative Plastics Utilities B.V. Netherlands 70% Support services EUR 0.0
SABIC Licensing B.V. Netherlands 70% Technology and innovation USD 0.1
SABIC Limburg B.V. Netherlands 70% Support services EUR 0.1
SABIC Sales Europe B.V. Netherlands 70% Reseller EUR 0.5
Principal (Manufacturing,
SABIC Petrochemicals B.V. Netherlands 70% Sales, R&D) EUR 192.1
SABIC Ventures B.V. Netherlands 70% Technology and innovation USD 0.1
SABIC Mining B.V. Netherlands 70% Holding USD 0.1
SHPP Holding B.V. Netherlands 70% Holding USD 0.0
SHPP Global Technologies B.V. Netherlands 70% Petrochemical USD 0.0
SHPP Ventures B.V. Netherlands 70% Technology and innovation EUR 0.0
SHPP Capital B.V. Netherlands 70% Financing USD 0.0
SHPP Capital I B.V. Netherlands 70% Financing USD 0.0
SHPP Capital II B.V. Netherlands 70% Financing USD 0.0
Principal (Manufacturing,
SHPP B.V. Netherlands 70% Sales, R&D) EUR 0.0
SHPP Sales B.V. Netherlands 70% Reseller EUR 0.0
SABIC Innovative Plastics Poland Sp. Z o.o. Poland 70% Agent PLN 1.8
SABIC Poland Sp. Z o.o. Poland 70% Agent PLN 0.1
SHPP Poland Sp. Z o.o. Poland 70% Reseller EUR 0.0
LLC SABIC Eastern Europe Russia 70% Agent RUB 0.0
SABIC Innovative Plastics Rus OOO Russia 70% Agent RUB 0.0
SHPP Russia OOO Russia 70% Agent RUB 0.0
SABIC Innovative Plastics (SEA) Pte. Ltd. Singapore 70% Reseller USD 271.0
152 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 155]
Additional financial
and legal information
Share capital
Place of business/
country of Percentage Amount
Name of entity incorporation ownership Principal business activity Currency (millions)
SABIC Innovative Plastics Holding
Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore 70% Holding USD 1902.6
Petrochemical
SHPP Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore 70% manufacture and sales USD 1536.1
SABIC Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. Singapore 70% Reseller USD 0.2
SHPP Slovakia s.r.o. Slovakia 70% Reseller EUR 0.0
SABIC Innovative Plastics Espana ScpA Spain 70% Toller EUR 2,603.6
SABIC Innovative Plastics GP BV, Sociedad
en Comandita Spain 70% Holding EUR 15.8
SABIC Sales Spain SL Spain 70% Agent EUR 0.0
SABIC Marketing Ibérica S.A. Spain 70% Reseller EUR 0.3
SHPP Manufacturing SL Spain 70% Toller EUR 0.0
SHPP Marketing Spain SL Spain 70% Reseller EUR 0.0
Saudi Innovative Plastics Sweden AB Sweden 70% Agent SEK 1.6
SHPP Thailand Co. Ltd. Thailand 70% Petrochemical THB 70.9
SABIC Thailand Co. Ltd. Thailand 70% Petrochemical THB 28.8
SHPP Petrokimya Ticaret Ltd Sirketi Turkey 70% Marketing and sales support EUR 0.0
SABIC Global Ltd. United Kingdom 70% Holding GBP 166.3
SABIC Tees Holdings Ltd. United Kingdom 70% Holding EUR 1,245.0
SHPP Manufacturing UK Ltd. United Kingdom 70% Petrochemical GBP 80.1
SABIC Innovative Plastics Ltd. United Kingdom 70% Agent GBP 17.5
SABIC UK Ltd. United Kingdom 70% Reseller GBP –
Investment management
of post-employment
SABIC UK Pension Trustee Ltd. United Kingdom 70% benefit plans GBP –
SABIC UK Petrochemicals Ltd. United Kingdom 70% Toller GBP 2,576.3
SHPP Sales UK Ltd. United Kingdom 70% Reseller EUR 0.0
Exatec, LLC USA 70% Technology and innovation USD 286.9
Petrochemical
Mt. Vernon Phenol Plant Partnership USA 35.7% manufacture and sales USD 91.9
SABIC Americas Inc. USA 70% Reseller USD 7.0
SABIC US Holdings LP USA 70% Holding USD 13,968.0
SABIC Innovative Plastics Mt. Vernon, LLC USA 70% Toller USD 7,857.5
Principal (Manufacturing,
SABIC Innovative Plastics US LLC USA 70% Sales, R&D) USD 9,716.9
Petrochemical
SABIC Petrochemicals Holding US, Inc. USA 70% manufacture and sales USD –
SABIC Ventures US Holdings LLC USA 70% Technology and innovation USD 231.0
SABIC US Projects LLC USA 70% Projects USD 56.3
SABIC Americas Growth LLC USA 70% Projects USD –
SABIC US Methanol LLC USA 70% Projects USD –
Principal (Manufacturing,
SHPP US LLC USA 70% Sales, R&D) USD 0.0
SABIC Vietnam Ltd. Vietnam 70% Agent VND 1.9
SHPP Vietnam Co Ltd Vietnam 70% Petrochemical VND 0.4
SABCAP Insurance Limited (“SABCAP”) Guernsey 70% Insurance USD 187.5
SABIC Petrokemya Ticaret Limited
(“SABIC TURKEY”) Turkey 70% Reseller TRY 0.2
SABIC Middle East Offshore Company
(“SABIC MIDDLE EAST”) Lebanon n/a5 Marketing and sales support USD 0.1
SABIC Middle East Business Management Jordan 70% Marketing and sales support JOD 2.1
SABIC South Africa South Africa 70% Marketing and sales support ZAR 2.9
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 153
[Page 156]
Additional legal information continued
Share capital
Place of business/
country of Percentage Amount
Name of entity incorporation ownership Principal business activity Currency (millions)
SABIC Africa for Trading & Marketing
(“SABIC AFRICA”) Egypt n/a5 Marketing and sales support EGP 0.1
SABIC Morocco Morocco 70% Marketing and sales support MAD 0.4
Personnel and other
SABIC Global Mobility Company (“GMC”) UAE 70% support services AED 0.1
SABIC Mobility Company (“GMC LLC”) UAE 70% Petrochemical AED 0.1
SABIC Tunisia Tunisia 70% Marketing and sales support TND 0.4
SABIC Kenya Kenya 70% Marketing and sales support KES 0.7
SABIC (Pvt.) Pakistan Pakistan 70% Marketing and sales support PKR 0.6
SABIC East Africa Egypt 70% Marketing and sales support EGP 0.0
International Shipping and Transportation Co.
(“ISTC”) Saudi Arabia 69.3% Support services SAR 40.0
SABIC Terminal Services Company
(“SABTANK”) Saudi Arabia 63% Support services SAR 30.0
Jubail Chemical Storage and Services
Company (“Chemtank”) Saudi Arabia 40.6% Support services SAR 582.8
SABIC Agri-Nutrients Investment Company
(“SANIC”) Saudi Arabia 35.1% Agri-Nutrients SAR 0.0
National Chemical Fertiliser Company
(“IBN AL-BAYTAR”) Saudi Arabia 35.1% Agri-Nutrients SAR 494.7
Joint operations2
Saudi-Kuwaiti Oil and gas exploration
Al-Khafji Joint Operations Partitioned Zone 50% and production SAR 15.0
Fadhili Plant Cogeneration Company Saudi Arabia 30% Power generation SAR 1.5
Pengerang Petrochemical Company SDN. BHD. Malaysia 50% Petrochemical MYR 1,207.0
Pengerang Refining Company SDN. BHD. Malaysia 50% Refining MYR 6,457.0
Power Cogeneration Plant Company Saudi Arabia 50% Power generation SAR 24.8
Saudi Aramco Mobil Refinery Company Ltd. Saudi Arabia 50% Refining SAR 1,800.0
Saudi Aramco Total Refining and
Petrochemical Company Saudi Arabia 62.5% Refining/petrochemical USD 2,200.0
Corporate social
Torathuna Social Responsibility Company Saudi Arabia 62.5% responsibility SAR 0.5
Tanajib Cogeneration Power Company Saudi Arabia 40% Power systems SAR 15.0
Yanbu Aramco Sinopec Refining
Company Limited Saudi Arabia 62.5% Refining USD 1,560.3
Gulf Coast Growth Venture LLC ("GCGV")3 USA 35% Petrochemical USD 112.5
Saudi Methacrylates Company (“SAMAC”)3 Saudi Arabia 35% Petrochemical SAR 1,350.0
Joint ventures2
Arabian Rig Manufacturing Company ("ARM") Saudi Arabia 30% Rig manufacturing SAR 28.6
First Coast Energy LLP ("FCE") USA 50% Marketing USD 164.0
Huajin Aramco Petrochemical Company People's Republic
("HAPCO") of China 35% Petrochemical RMB –
Juniper Ventures of Texas LLP ("JVTX") USA 60% Marketing USD 139.0
Middle East Information Technology Solutions
(“MEITS”) Saudi Arabia 49% Information technology SAR 11.0
Novel Non-Metallic Solutions Manufacturing
("Novel") Saudi Arabia 50% Manufacturing USD 40.1
Sadara Chemical Company ("Sadara") Saudi Arabia 65% Petrochemical USD 9,500.0
Petrochemical manufacture
Sadara Basic Services Company Saudi Arabia 65% and sales USD 2.0
Saudi Hydrogen Peroxide Company Saudi Arabia 33% Petrochemical manufacture SAR 242.0
Sadara Sukuk Wahid BV Netherlands 65% Investment USD 0.1
Sadara Sukuk Ithnayn BV Netherlands 65% Investment USD 0.1
154 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 157]
Additional financial
and legal information
Share capital
Place of business/
country of Percentage Amount
Name of entity incorporation ownership Principal business activity Currency (millions)
Sadara Sukuk Thalatha BV Netherlands 65% Investment USD 0.1
Sadara Sukuk Arbaia BV Netherlands 65% Investment USD 0.1
Sadara Sukuk Khamsa BV Netherlands 65% Investment USD 0.1
Saudi Arabian Industrial Investment Company
(“Dussur”) Saudi Arabia 42.5% Investment SAR 2,000.0
Saudi Engines Manufacturing Company
("SEMCO") Saudi Arabia 55% Manufacturing USD 41.6
Lubricants production
S-Oil TOTAL Lubricants Co. Limited South Korea 50% and sales KRW 35,000.0
Star Enterprises LLC (“Star-Ent”) USA 50% Pension administration USD 247.0
Tas'helat Marketing Company ("TMC") Saudi Arabia 50% Marketing SAR 40.0
Sahel Cafe Food Services Company Saudi Arabia 50% Retail services SAR 0.5
Sahel Mart Company Saudi Arabia 50% Retail services SAR 40.0
Sahel Transportation Company Saudi Arabia 50% Retail services SAR 0.5
Tuwaiq Casting & Forging Company Saudi Arabia 44.8% Manufacturing USD 0.1
Advance Energy Storage System Company
(“AESSC”)3 Saudi Arabia 30.1% Petrochemical SAR 0.5
Al-Jubail Petrochemical Company ("Kemya")3 Saudi Arabia 35% Petrochemical SAR 2,149.2
Cosmar Company ("COSMAR")3 USA 35% Petrochemical USD 911.0
Eastern Petrochemical Company ("Sharq")3 Saudi Arabia 35% Petrochemical SAR 1,890.0
SABIC Plastic Energy Advanced Recycling BV
(“SPEAR”)3 Netherlands 35% Petrochemical EUR 2.3
SABIC SK Nexlene Company Pte. Ltd. (“SSNC”)3 Singapore 35% Petrochemical SAR 1,125.0
Saudi Yanbu Petrochemical Company
("Yanpet")3 Saudi Arabia 35% Petrochemical SAR 4,596.0
SD Beteiligungs-GmbH & Co KG3 Germany 35% Investments EUR 0.4
SD Lizenzverwertungs-GmbH & Co3 Germany 35% License company EUR 0.4
SD Verwaltungs-GmbH3 Germany 35% Administrative company EUR 0.1
Sinopec SABIC Tianjin Petrochemical People's Republic
Company ("SSTPC")3 of China 35% Petrochemical SAR 5,222.5
Utility Support Group B.V. ("USG")3 Netherlands 35% Petrochemical EUR 0.1
Associates2
BP AOC Pumpstation Maatschap Netherlands 50% Storage EUR 0.0
BP ESSO AOC Maatschap Netherlands 34.4% Storage EUR 0.0
International Maritime Industries Company
(“IMIC”) Saudi Arabia 40.1% Maritime SAR 1,591.0
Power & Water Utility Company for Jubail
and Yanbu (“Marafiq”) Saudi Arabia 42.2% Utilities SAR 2,500.0
Sudair One Holding Company ("Sudair One") Saudi Arabia 30.3% Holding SAR 0.7
Team Terminal B.V. Netherlands 34.4% Storage EUR 0.0
Mauritania Saudi Mining & Steel Company S.A.
(TAKAMUL)3 Mauritania 35% Investment MRU 96.8
Nusaned Fund3 Saudi Arabia 35% Investments SAR 72.9
Rabigh Refining and Petrochemical Company
(“Petro Rabigh”) Saudi Arabia 37.5% Refining/petrochemical SAR 8,760.0
1. Excludes subsidiaries which are passively held for investment purposes and not deemed material by Aramco.
2. Percentages disclosed reflect the effective ownership of Aramco in the respective entities.
3. Share capital amounts are presented in SAR. The currencies listed represent the functional currency of the entity.
4. In February 2021, Saudi Specialty Chemicals Company ("SP.CHEM") and Saudi Organometallic Chemicals Company ("SOCC") merged into PETROKEMYA.
5. Under liquidation.
For more information on Aramco’s subsidiaries, see Section 8: Consolidated financial statements — Notes 38 and 39.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 155
[Page 158]
Forecasts and forward-looking statements
This Annual Report may contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to Aramco’s financial position, results of operations
and business and certain of Aramco’s plans, intentions, expectations, assumptions, goals and beliefs regarding such items. These
statements include all matters that are not historical fact and generally, but not always, may be identified by the use of words such as
“believes”, “expects”, “are expected to”, “anticipates”, “intends”, “estimates”, “should”, “will”, “shall”, “may”, “is likely to”, “plans”,
“outlook” or similar expressions, including variations and the negatives thereof or comparable terminology.
Prospective investors should be aware that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and that Aramco’s
actual financial position, results of operations and business and the development of the industries in which it operates may differ
significantly from those made in or suggested by these forward-looking statements. In addition, even if Aramco’s financial position,
results of operations and business and the development of the industries in which it operates are consistent with these forward-
looking statements, those results or developments may not be indicative of results or developments in subsequent periods.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from Aramco’s expectations are contained in cautionary statements in this
Annual Report and include, among other things, the following:
• Supply, demand and price fluctuations with respect to oil and gas, and Aramco’s other products;
• Global economic market conditions;
• Natural disasters and public health pandemics or epidemics (such as COVID-19), and weather conditions (including those associated
with climate change);
• Competition in the industries in which Aramco operates;
• Climate change concerns and related impacts on the global demand for hydrocarbons and hydrocarbon-based products;
• Conditions affecting the transportation of products;
• Operational risk and hazards common in the oil and gas, refining and petrochemicals industries;
• The cyclical nature of the oil and gas, refining and petrochemicals industries;
• Terrorism and armed conflict, political and social instability and unrest, and actual or potential armed conflicts in the MENA region
and other areas;
• Managing Aramco’s growth and risks related to its strategic growth objectives;
• Risks in connection with projects under development and recent and future acquisitions and joint ventures, including with respect
to SABIC;
• Aramco’s dependence on the reliability and security of its IT systems;
• Managing Aramco’s subsidiaries, joint operations, joint ventures, associates and entities in which it holds a minority interest;
• Aramco’s exposure to interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk;
• Risks related to operating in a regulated industry and changes to oil, gas, environmental or other regulations that impact the
industries in which Aramco operates;
• Risks related to litigation, including international trade litigation, disputes or agreements; and
• Risks related to the Kingdom.
The sections of this Annual Report entitled “Risk Factors” and “Financial Performance” contain a more complete discussion of the
factors that could affect Aramco’s future performance and the industries in which it operates. In light of these risks, uncertainties
and assumptions, the forward-looking events described in this Annual Report may not occur.
We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events
or otherwise. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or to persons acting on our behalf are
expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements referred to above and contained elsewhere in this Annual Report.
156 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 159]
Terms and abbreviations Additional financial
and legal information
Currencies mmbpd Arabian Super Light
Million barrels per day Crude oil with API gravity more than 40°
SAR/Saudi Riyal
and sulfur content less than 0.5%.
Saudi Arabian riyal, the lawful
mmBTU
currency of the Kingdom
Million British thermal units Carbon intensity
A measure of greenhouse gas emissions in
$/USD/Dollar
mmscf carbon dioxide (CO) equivalent per barrel
U.S. dollar 2
Million standard cubic feet of oil equivalent.
Units of measurement
mmscfd CO
2
Barrel (bbl) Million standard cubic feet Carbon dioxide.
Barrels of crude oil, condensate per day
or refined products COe
2
mmtpa Carbon dioxide equivalent.
B Million metric tons per annum
Billion Condensate
per day Light hydrocarbon substances produced
boe Volumes are converted into a daily basis with raw gas which condenses into liquid
Barrels of oil equivalent using a calendar year (Gregorian) at normal temperatures and pressures
associated with surface production
bpd scf equipment.
Barrels per day Standard cubic feet
Delineation
bscf tscf A process by which new wells are drilled
Billion standard cubic feet Trillion standard cubic feet in order to determine the boundaries of
a discovered oil or gas field, both its areal
bscfd Technical terms
extent and its vertical hydrocarbon column.
Billion standard cubic feet per day
ASU
Air Separation Unit. FEED
BTU
Front end engineering design.
British thermal unit
Arabian Extra Light
Crude oil with API gravity of 36° to 40° Freshwater
GW
and sulfur content between 0.5% and Non-brackish water with total dissolved
Gigawatts
1.3%. solids (TDS) concentration up to
2,000 mg/l.
mboed
Arabian Heavy
Thousand barrels of oil
Crude oil with API gravity less than 29° Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
equivalent per day
and sulfur content greater than 2.9%. Any gaseous compound in the
atmosphere that is capable of absorbing
mbpd
Arabian Light infrared radiation. Generally, consists of
Thousand barrels per day
Crude oil with API gravity of 32° to 36° water vapor, CO, methane, nitrous oxide,
2
mmbbl and sulfur content between 1.3% and hydro fluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons
Million barrels 2.2%. and sulfur hexafluoride. Aramco’s
inventory includes CO, methane and
2
mmboe Arabian Medium nitrous oxide.
Million barrels of oil equivalent Crude oil with API gravity of 29° to 32°
and sulfur content between 2.2% and Gross chemicals production capacity
mmboed 2.9%. The total combined chemicals production
Million barrels of oil equivalent capacity of Aramco and the joint ventures
per day and other entities in which Aramco owns
an equity interest.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 157
[Page 160]
Terms and abbreviations continued
Gross refining capacity Natural gas Reliability
The total combined refining capacity of Dry gas produced at Aramco’s gas plants Total products volume shipped/delivered
Aramco and the joint ventures and other and sold within the Kingdom. within 24 hours of the scheduled time,
entities in which Aramco owns an equity divided by the total products volume
interest. Net chemicals production capacity committed. Any delays caused by factors
Aramco’s equity share of its gross chemicals that are under the Company’s control
Hydrocarbons production capacity, calculated by (e.g. terminal, pipeline, stabilization, or
Crude oil and other hydrogen and carbon multiplying the gross chemicals production production) negatively affect the score,
compounds in liquid or gaseous state. capacity of each facility in which Aramco whereas delays caused by conditions that
has an interest by Aramco’s percentage are beyond the Company’s control, such
IGCC equity ownership in the entity that owns as adverse weather, are not considered.
Integrated gasification combined-cycle. the facility. A score of less than 100 percent indicates
there were issues that negatively
Lifting costs Net refining capacity impacted reliability.
Oil and gas operations (i) production Aramco’s equity share of its gross refining
related expenses; (ii) taxes other than capacity, calculated by multiplying the Reserves life
income taxes (if applicable); and (iii) gross refining capacity of each refinery Calculated on a barrel of oil equivalent
production related general and in which Aramco has an interest by basis by dividing proved reserves as at a
administrative expenses. Lifting costs Aramco’s percentage equity ownership given year-end by production for that year.
exclude exploration, royalty, R&D, public in the entity that owns the refinery.
service costs, gain or loss on disposal of Scope 1 GHG emissions
property, plant and equipment and NGL Direct emissions, which include GHG
depreciation costs. Natural gas liquids, which are liquid or emissions from onsite fuel combustion,
liquefied hydrocarbons produced in the flaring, venting and fugitive emissions.
Liquids manufacture, purification and stabilization
Crude oil, condensate and NGL. of natural gas. For purposes of reserves, Scope 2 GHG emissions
ethane is included in NGL. For purposes of Indirect emissions, which account for GHG
LPG production, ethane is reported separately emissions from offsite power generation
Liquefied petroleum gas, which is a and excluded from NGL. including electricity and steam.
mixture of saturated and unsaturated
hydrocarbons, with up to five carbon Production costs Tier 1 process safety event
atoms, used as household fuel. The sum of operating costs and An unplanned or uncontrolled release
depreciation, reflecting both the erosion of any material, including nontoxic
MSC of asset value over time on an accounting and nonflammable materials, from a
Maximum Sustainable Capacity — the basis and the cost of operating the process that results in one or more of the
average maximum number of barrels business. consequences listed in API Recommended
per day of crude oil that can be produced Practice-754.
for one year during any future planning Proved reserves
period, after taking into account all Those quantities of liquids and gas, which, Total recordable case (TRC) frequency
planned capital expenditures and by analysis of geoscience and engineering Sum of recordable cases that occurred in
maintenance, repair and operating costs, data, can be estimated with reasonable the workplace per 200,000 work hours.
and after being given three months to certainty to be economically producible
make operational adjustments. — from a given date forward, from Unconventional oil and gas
known reservoirs, and under existing Term refers to the oil and gas resources
The MSC excludes AGOC’s crude oil economic conditions, operating methods which cannot be explored, developed and
production capacity. and government regulations — prior to produced by conventional processes just
the time at which contracts providing the in using the natural pressure of the wells
MTBE right to operate expire, unless evidence and pumping or compression operations.
Methyl tertiary butyl ether — a volatile,
indicates that renewal is reasonably
colorless, flammable liquid that is Upstream methane intensity
certain, regardless of whether
manufactured via a chemical reaction Estimated methane emissions from
deterministic or probabilistic methods
between methanol and isobutylene upstream operations per volume of
are used for the estimation. The project
and is used as a component in fuel for marketed natural gas expressed as
to extract the hydrocarbons must have
gasoline engines. a percentage.
commenced or the operator must be
reasonably certain that it will commence
the project within a reasonable time.
158 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 161]
Glossary Additional financial
and legal information
Affiliate ATC CMA
Except with respect to financial Aramco Trading Company, a wholly- The Capital Market Authority, including,
information, the term Affiliate means a owned subsidiary of Aramco. where the context permits, any
person who controls another person or is committee, sub-committee, employee
controlled by that other person, or who is Auditor or agent to whom any function of the
under common control with that person PricewaterhouseCoopers Public CMA may be delegated.
by a third person. In any of the preceding, Accountants, the independent external
control could be direct or indirect. auditor of Aramco. Companies Law
The Companies Law, issued under Royal
With respect to financial information, Blended Price Decree No. M/3, dated 28/1/1437H
the term Affiliate means the Company’s Pursuant to Council of Ministers (corresponding to November 10, 2015),
subsidiaries, joint arrangements and Resolution No. 370, dated 10/7/1439H as amended.
associate, each as defined by IFRS. (corresponding to March 27, 2018) and
the Ministerial Resolution issued by the Company
AGM Ministry of Energy, in agreement with the Saudi Arabian Oil Company.
Ordinary Annual General Assembly Ministry of Finance, No. 01-5928-1439,
meeting. dated as at 27/8/1439H (corresponding to Concession
May 13, 2018), effective March 17, 2018, As defined in Section 7: Additional
AGOC the Kingdom established the price due financial and legal information —
Aramco Gulf Operations Company Ltd. to licensees for the domestic sale of Material agreements — The Concession.
Regulated Gas Products.
AOPC Concession Amendment
Aramco Oil Pipelines Company. Board As defined in Section 7: Additional
The Board of Directors of the Company. financial and legal information —
API Material agreements — The Concession.
The American Petroleum Institute, Bylaws
which is the major United States trade The Bylaws of the Company, approved Concession Area
association for the oil and gas industry. by Council of Ministers Resolution The territorial lands and maritime areas of
No. 180 dated 1/4/1439H (corresponding the Kingdom except in the Excluded Areas.
Aramco Namaat to December 19, 2017), which came into
Aramco’s industrial investment program. effect on January 1, 2018. Concession Effective Date
As defined in Section 7: Additional
ARLANXEO Capital Market Law financial and legal information —
ARLANXEO Holding B.V., a wholly-owned The Capital Market Law, pursuant to Material agreements — The Concession.
specialty chemicals subsidiary. Royal Decree No. (M/30) dated 2/6/1424H
Control
— 31/7/2003, was issued to create a
Associate Except with respect to financial
transparent, fair and regulated market
With respect to financial information, the information, the term “Control” means the
that keeps pace with the current
term Associate, as defined by IFRS, means ability to influence the actions or decisions
developments in other international
an entity over which the Company has of another person through, whether
financial markets. The Capital Market Law
significant influence but does not control, directly or indirectly, alone or with a
articles are formulated to regulate and
generally reflected by a shareholding of relative or affiliate (a) holding 30% or more
develop the capital market, regulate the
between 20% and 50% of the voting of the voting rights in a company, or (b)
issuance of securities and supervise its
rights. Significant influence is the having the right to appoint 30% or more
transactions as well as supervising
power to participate in the financial and of the Board of a company; “controller”
authorized persons licensed by CMA.
operating policy decisions of the investee shall be construed accordingly.
In addition, it protects investors and
but is not control or joint control over
citizens from illegal practices.
those policies. With respect to financial information,
the term "Control" is defined by IFRS:
the Company controls an entity when
it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable
returns from its involvement with the
entity and has the ability to affect those
returns through its power over the entity.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 159
[Page 162]
Glossary continued
Corporate Governance Regulations (CGRs) Excluded Areas General Assembly
The Corporate Governance Regulations The limited area excluded from Aramco’s Any Ordinary General Assembly or
issued pursuant to the CMA Board rights under the Concession, consisting of: Extraordinary General Assembly.
Resolution No. 8-16-2017, dated (a) the boundaries of the Holy Mosques
16/5/1438H (corresponding to February in Makkah Al-Mukarramah and Madinah GMTN program
13, 2017), as amended. Al-Munawwarah, (b) the partitioned On April 1, 2019, the Company
territory and its adjoining offshore areas in established a global medium-term note
Council of Ministers accordance with the agreements between program pursuant to which it may from
The cabinet of the Kingdom, which the Kingdom and the State of Kuwait, and time to time issue notes.
is led by the Custodian of the Two Holy (c) the common zone in the Red Sea in
Mosques, the King, and includes H.R.H. the accordance with the agreement between Government
Crown Prince and other cabinet ministers. the Kingdom and the Republic of Sudan. The Government of the Kingdom (and
“Governmental” shall be interpreted
COVID-19 FREP accordingly).
The coronavirus disease identified in 2019. Fujian Refining & Petrochemical Company
GSPR
Limited, a joint venture established
D&M among Saudi Aramco Asia Company Ltd., The Law of Gas Supplies and Pricing
DeGolyer & MacNaughton, Aramco’s Fujian Petrochemical Company Ltd. (itself enacted by Royal Decree No. M/36, dated
independent petroleum consultant. a joint venture between Sinopec and 25/6/1424H (corresponding to August 23,
2003), as amended.
the Fujian, China provincial government)
Domestic
and ExxonMobil China Petroleum &
Refers to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. H
Petrochemical Company Ltd.
Hijri calendar.
Domestic Price
FSIA
Certain prices for the domestic sale of HSE
U.S. Foreign Sovereign Immunity Act.
gas hydrocarbons including those for Health, safety and environment.
Regulated Gas Products. GCC
HSSE
The Cooperation Council for the Arab
EBIT Health, safety, security, and environment.
States of the Gulf, consisting of the
Earnings (losses) before interest, income
member states of the Kingdom of Bahrain,
taxes and zakat. Hydrocarbons Law
State of Kuwait, Sultanate of Oman, State
Law governing hydrocarbons,
of Qatar, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and
ERM hydrocarbon resources, and hydrocarbon
United Arab Emirates.
Enterprise risk management. operations existing within the territory
of the Kingdom, enacted by Royal Decree
GDP
ESG No. M/37, dated 2/4/1439H (corresponding
Gross domestic product. The broadest
Environmental, social and governance. to December 20, 2017), as amended.
quantitative measure of a nation’s total
economic activity, representing the
IAS
monetary value of all goods and services
International Accounting Standard(s).
produced within a nation’s geographic
borders over a specified period of time. IASB
International Accounting Standards Board.
160 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 163]
Additional financial
and legal information
IFRS Joint venture Master Gas System (MGS)
International Financial Reporting The term joint venture, as defined by An extensive network of pipelines that
Standard(s) that are endorsed in the IFRS, means a type of joint arrangement connects Aramco’s key gas production and
Kingdom and other standards and whereby the parties that have joint processing sites throughout the Kingdom.
pronouncements endorsed by SOCPA. control of the arrangement have rights to
the net assets of the joint arrangement. Ministry of Energy
iktva Ministry of Energy of the Kingdom.
In-Kingdom total value add. KAUST Successor to MEIM.
King Abdullah University of Science
Income Tax Law/Tax Law and Technology. Ministry of Human Resources
Income Tax Law issued under Royal and Social Development
Decree No. M/1 dated 15/1/1425H KFUPM Ministry of Human Resources and
(corresponding to March 6, 2004) and its King Fahd University of Petroleum Social Development of the Kingdom,
Implementing Regulations issued under and Minerals. formerly the Ministry of Labor and
Ministerial Resolution No. 1535 dated Social Development.
11/6/1425H (corresponding to August 11, Kingdom
2004), as amended from time to time. Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Ministry of Industry
and Mineral Resources
IOCs KPIs The Ministry of Industry and Mineral
International oil companies. Key Performance Indicators. Resources of the Kingdom.
IPO LTI Ministry of Labor
The initial public offering. Lost time injuries/illness. and Social Development
The Ministry of Labor and Social
ISO Luberef Development of the Kingdom.
International Organization for Saudi Aramco Base Oil Company, a joint
Standardization. venture between Aramco and Jadwa Motiva
Industrial Investment Company, which Motiva Enterprises LLC.
JIGPC acquired its share from Mobil in 2007.
Jazan Integrated Gasification and NOCs
Power Company. MEIM National oil companies.
The Ministry of Energy, Industry and
Joint arrangement Mineral Resources of the Kingdom. OGCI
The term joint arrangement, as defined Predecessor to the Ministry of Energy. Oil and Gas Climate Initiative.
by IFRS, refers to either a joint operation
or a joint venture. MENA OPEC
Middle East and North Africa. Organization of the Petroleum
Joint operation Exporting Countries.
The term joint operation, as defined MEWA
by IFRS, arises where the investors have The Ministry of the Environment, Water
rights to the assets and obligations for and Agriculture of the Kingdom.
the liabilities of a joint arrangement.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 161
[Page 164]
Glossary continued
Operationally controlled entities Price equalization Rules on the Offer of Securities and
Includes SASREF, Motiva, ARLANXEO, Prices are established separately by the Continuing Obligations (OSCO Rules)
Aramco Trading Company, Aramco Ministry of Energy for each relevant As issued by the Board of the CMA
Overseas Company, Aramco Services product using a combination of either pursuant to CMA Board Resolution
Company, Saudi Aramco Asia Company Ltd. internationally recognized indices or, where No. 3-123-2017 dated 9/4/1439H
relevant, the Company’s official selling (corresponding to December 27, 2017)
Original Concession price and, depending on the relevant based on the Capital Market Law, as
As defined in Section 7: Additional product, on the basis of export parity, amended by CMA Board Resolution
financial and legal information — import parity or a combination of both. No. 1-104-2019 dated 1/2/1441H
Material agreements — The Concession. (corresponding to September 30, 2019).
R&D
Paris Agreement Research and development. SABIC
The United Nations Framework Saudi Basic Industries Corporation.
Convention on Climate Change Regulated Gas Products
Paris Agreement. Gas hydrocarbons which are subject to the Sadara
Kingdom’s gas pricing regime, including Sadara Chemical Company, a joint venture
PETRONAS natural gas, ethane and NGL (propane, established by Aramco and Dow Chemical
Petroliam Nasional Bhd. butane and natural gasoline). Company in 2011.
Petro Rabigh Relatives SASREF
Rabigh Refining and Petrochemical The term relatives, as defined under Saudi Aramco Jubail Refinery Company,
Company, a venture established by Aramco the Corporate Governance Regulations, a subsidiary of Aramco, formerly known
and Sumitomo Chemical Co. Ltd. in 2005, refers to: as Saudi Aramco Shell Refinery Company.
which is a publicly traded company listed
on Tadawul. (i) Fathers, mothers, grandfathers and SATORP
grandmothers (and their ancestors); Saudi Aramco Total Refining and
PIF Petrochemical Company, a joint venture
(ii) Children and grandchildren and their
Public Investment Fund of Saudi Arabia. established by Aramco and Total Refining
descendants;
Saudi Arabia SAS in 2008.
PRefChem (iii) Siblings, maternal and paternal
PRefChem Petrochemical and PRefChem half-siblings; and Saudi Aramco/Aramco
Refining. Saudi Arabian Oil Company, together with
(iv) Husbands and wives.
its consolidated subsidiaries, and where
PRefChem Petrochemical the context requires, its joint operations,
Pengerang Petrochemical Company Reserved Areas joint ventures and associates.
Sdn. Bhd. The areas reserved for Aramco’s
operations within the Concession Area.
Any reference to “us”, “we” or “our” refers
PRefChem Refining to Aramco except where otherwise stated.
Pengerang Refining Company Sdn. Bhd. ROACE
Return on average capital employed.
Unless otherwise stated, the text does
not distinguish between the activities
and operations of the Company and
those of its subsidiaries.
162 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 165]
Additional financial
and legal information
Saudi Green Initiative (SGI) Sinopec Sumed Company
A national initiative for the Kingdom that China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation. The Arab Petroleum Pipelines Company.
aims to increase the Kingdom’s reliance
on clean energy, offset the impact of fossil SOCPA Sumitomo
fuels and combat climate change. Saudi Organization for Chartered and Sumitomo Chemical Co. Ltd.
Professional Accountants.
Senior Executives/ Tadawul/Exchange
Management Committee S-Oil The Saudi Stock Exchange, the sole entity
The members of the Senior Management S-Oil Corporation. authorized in the Kingdom to act as a
of Aramco holding the title of President, securities exchange.
SPE-PRMS
CEO, or Senior Vice President.
Society of Petroleum Engineers — Total
Senior Management Petroleum Resources Management System. Total S.A.
The Senior Management and other
SSC U.S./United States/USA
officers of Aramco who, while
Sustainability Steering Committee. United States of America.
subordinate to the Senior Executives,
are still involved in the management
Stellar YASREF
of Aramco and participate in driving
Stellar Insurance Ltd. Yanbu Aramco Sinopec Refinery Company
its strategies, decisions or operations.
Limited, a joint venture established by
Subsidiaries Aramco and Sinopec Century Bright
Senior Unsecured Notes
Except with respect to financial Capital Investment (Amsterdam) B.V.
Senior Unsecured Notes under the
information, the term subsidiaries means in 2010.
GMTN Program.
the companies that Aramco controls
through its ability to influence the actions ZATCA
Shareek program
or decisions of another person through, The Saudi Arabian Zakat, Tax and
A cooperative Government program that
whether directly or indirectly, alone or Customs Authority.
is designed to provide support via various
with a relative or affiliate (i) holding 30%
pillars including financial, monetary,
or more of the voting rights in a company
operational and regulatory cooperation
or (ii) having the right to appoint 30% or
and asset investment, aiming to enhance
more of the Board of a company.
the development and resilience of the
Saudi economy by increasing the gross
With respect to financial information,
domestic product, providing job
the term subsidiaries is defined by IFRS,
opportunities, diversifying the economy
meaning entities over which the Company
and strengthening cooperation between
has control.
public and private sectors.
Sukuk
Shareholder
A sukuk is a financial instrument similar to a
Any holder of shares.
bond that complies with Shari’a principles.
Shari’a
The Islamic law.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 163
[Page 168]
Independent auditor’s report
Independent auditor’s report to the shareholders of Saudi Arabian
Oil Company
Independent auditor’s report to the shareholders of Saudi Arabian
Oil Company
Report on the audit of the consolidated financial statements
Report on the audit of the consolidated financial statements
Our opinion
OInu oru or popininiioonn , the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
f inancial position of Saudi Arabian Oil Company (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries (together the “Group”)
Ians oaut rD oepcienmiobne,r t h3e1 ,c 2o0n2so1,l iadnadte idt sf icnoannscoialild sattaetde mfinenantsc piarle pseenrfto framiralyn,c ien aanlld m itast ecroinasl orelisdpaetcetds ,c tahseh cfolonwsosl fidora ttehde
fyineaarn cthiaeln p oesnidtieodn ionf Sacacuodrid Aarnacbei awni tOhi lI nCtoemrnpaatnioyn (athl eF i“nCaonmcipaal nRye”p) oarntdin igts S stuabnsdidariadrsi,e tsh (atot gaerteh eenr dthoer s“eGdr oinu pth”)e
aKsi natg dDoemce mofb Sear u3d1i, 2A0ra2b1i, aa,n adn dit so cthoners osltiadnadteadrd fsin aanndc ipalr opneorfuonrcmeamnecnet as nisds iutesd c obnys tohlied aStaeudd ci aOshrg falnowizsa tfioorn t hfoer
yCehaar rttheerend e anndde dP rinof eascscioorndaaln Accec wouitnht aInnttse r(nSaOtCioPnAa)l .F inancial Reporting Standards, that are endorsed in the
K ingdom of Saudi Arabia, and other standards and pronouncements issued by the Saudi Organization for
CWhahratetr wede a hnadv Per oafuedssiitoenda l Accountants (SOCPA).
The Group’s consolidated financial statements comprise:
What we have audited
T●h et hGer ocuopn’sso cliodnastoeldid satatetdem fiennatn ocfia iln sctoamteem feonr ttsh ceo ymeaprr iesned: ed December 31, 2021;
● the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2021;
● the consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2021;
● the consolidated balance sheet as at December 31, 2021;
● the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2021;
● the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended December 31, 2021;
● the consolidated balance sheet as at December 31, 2021;
● the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2021; and
● the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended December 31, 2021;
● the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which include significant accounting policies and other
● t e h x e p c la o n n a s t o o li r d y a i t n e f d o r s m ta a te ti m on en . t of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2021; and
● the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which include significant accounting policies and other
Baesxipsl afnoart oorpyi innifoornm ation.
BWaes ciso nfodurc otepdi nouior na u dit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing, that are endorsed in the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s
Wrees pcoonnsdiubciltietdie so uforr a tuhdei at uind iat cocfo trhdea ncocne swoilitdha Itnetde rfinnaatniocniaall sSttaatnedmaerndtss osnec Atiuodni toifn ogu, rt hraetp oarrte. e ndorsed in the
K ingdom of Saudi Arabia. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s
rWesep bonelsiiebvieli ttiheast f tohre t haeu daiut deivti odfe nthcee cwoen shoalvidea otbedta fiinneadn icsi asul sfftiactieemnte anntsd saepcptiroonp orifa oteu rt or epproorvti.d e a basis for our
opinion.
W e believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
oIpnidnieopne. ndence
We are independent of the Group in accordance with the code of professional conduct and ethics, endorsed
Independence
in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial statements and
Wwee haraev ein fduelfpilelendd eonutr ooft htheer eGtrhoiucapl irne sapcocnosrdibainlictiee sw iinth a tchceo rcdoadnec oe fw pirtohf tehsesisoen raelq cuoinredmucetn atsn.d ethics, endorsed
i n the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial statements and
w e have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers, License No. 25, Saudi Aramco, P.O. Box 1659, Dhahran 31311, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
T: +966 (13) 873-6800, F: +966 (13) 873-8883, www.pwc.com/middle-east
P ricewaterhouseCoopers, License No. 25, Saudi Aramco, P.O. Box 1659, Dhahran 31311, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
166 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
T: +966 (13) 873-6800, F: +966 (13) 873-8883, www.pwc.com/middle-east
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
[Page 169]
Consolidated
financial statements
IInnddeeppeennddeenntt aauuddiittoorr’’ss rreeppoorrtt ttoo tthhee sshhaarreehhoollddeerrss ooff SSaauuddii AArraabbiiaann
OOiill CCoommppaannyy ((ccoonnttiinnuueedd))
OOuurr aauuddiitt aapppprrooaacchh
OOvveerrvviieeww
●● WWee ddeetteerrmmiinneedd oovveerraallll GGrroouupp mmaatteerriiaalliittyy ttaakkiinngg iinnttoo aaccccoouunntt tthhee pprrooffiitt--
oorriieenntteedd nnaattuurree ooff tthhee GGrroouupp..
●● BBaasseedd oonn iinnccoommee bbeeffoorree iinnccoommee ttaaxxeess aanndd zzaakkaatt ooff SSAARR 776699..55 bbiilllliioonn,, wwee
MMaatteerriiaalliittyy
ddeetteerrmmiinneedd oouurr oovveerraallll GGrroouupp mmaatteerriiaalliittyy aatt SSAARR 2288..11 bbiilllliioonn..
●● OOuurr qquuaannttiittaattiivvee tthhrreesshhoolldd ffoorr rreeppoorrttiinngg mmiissssttaatteemmeennttss ttoo tthhoossee cchhaarrggeedd
wwiitthh ggoovveerrnnaannccee wwaass sseett aatt SSAARR 11..99 bbiilllliioonn..
BBaasseedd oonn tthheeiirr ssiizzee,, ccoommpplleexxiittyy aanndd rriisskk::
●● WWee ccoonnssiiddeerreedd tthhee CCoommppaannyy’’ss ssttaannddaalloonnee ooppeerraattiioonnss aanndd ffoouurr ootthheerr
GGrroouupp ccoommppoonneennttss llooccaatteedd iinn tthhee KKiinnggddoomm ooff SSaauuddii AArraabbiiaa,, tthhee UUnniitteedd SSttaatteess ooff
ssccooppiinngg AAmmeerriiccaa aanndd tthhee RReeppuubblliicc ooff KKoorreeaa aass ssiiggnniiffiiccaanntt ttoo tthhee GGrroouupp aauuddiitt;; aanndd
●● WWee aallssoo ddeetteerrmmiinneedd aa nnuummbbeerr ooff ootthheerr ccoommppoonneennttss ttoo bbee iinn ssccooppee ffoorr tthhee
GGrroouupp aauuddiitt,, iinn rreessppeecctt ooff wwhhiicchh aapppprroopprriiaattee aauuddiitt pprroocceedduurreess wweerree
ppeerrffoorrmmeedd..
KK
mm
eey
a
y
a t
a
t
a
tt
u
e
u
er
d
r
d
ss
ii t t
OOuurr kkeeyy aauuddiitt mmaatttteerrss ccoommpprriissee tthhee ffoolllloowwiinngg::
●● AAsssseessssmmeenntt ooff rreeccoovveerraabbiilliittyy ooff tthhee ggooooddwwiillll aanndd bbrraanndd rreeccooggnniisseedd aass ppaarrtt
ooff tthhee SSaauuddii BBaassiicc IInndduussttrriieess CCoorrppoorraattiioonn ((““SSAABBIICC””)) aaccqquuiissiittiioonn;; aanndd
●● AAccccoouunnttiinngg ffoorr tthhee ooiill ppiippeelliinneess ttrraannssaaccttiioonn..
AAss ppaarrtt ooff ddeessiiggnniinngg oouurr aauuddiitt,, wwee ddeetteerrmmiinneedd mmaatteerriiaalliittyy aanndd aasssseesssseedd tthhee rriisskkss ooff mmaatteerriiaall mmiissssttaatteemmeenntt iinn
tthhee ccoonnssoolliiddaatteedd ffiinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss.. IInn ppaarrttiiccuullaarr,, wwee ccoonnssiiddeerreedd wwhheerree tthhee BBooaarrdd ooff DDiirreeccttoorrss mmaaddee
ssuubbjjeeccttiivvee jjuuddggmmeennttss;; ffoorr eexxaammppllee,, iinn rreessppeecctt ooff ssiiggnniiffiiccaanntt aaccccoouunnttiinngg eessttiimmaatteess tthhaatt iinnvvoollvveedd mmaakkiinngg
aassssuummppttiioonnss aanndd ccoonnssiiddeerriinngg ffuuttuurree eevveennttss tthhaatt aarree iinnhheerreennttllyy uunncceerrttaaiinn.. AAss iinn aallll ooff oouurr aauuddiittss,, wwee aallssoo
aaddddrreesssseedd tthhee rriisskk ooff mmaannaaggeemmeenntt oovveerrrriiddee ooff iinntteerrnnaall ccoonnttrroollss,, iinncclluuddiinngg aammoonngg ootthheerr mmaatttteerrss,,
ccoonnssiiddeerraattiioonn ooff wwhheetthheerr tthheerree wwaass eevviiddeennccee ooff bbiiaass tthhaatt rreepprreesseenntteedd aa rriisskk ooff mmaatteerriiaall mmiissssttaatteemmeenntt dduuee ttoo
ffrraauudd..
MMaatteerriiaalliittyy
TThhee ssccooppee ooff oouurr aauuddiitt wwaass iinnfflluueenncceedd bbyy oouurr aapppplliiccaattiioonn ooff mmaatteerriiaalliittyy.. AAnn aauuddiitt iiss ddeessiiggnneedd ttoo oobbttaaiinn
rreeaassoonnaabbllee aassssuurraannccee wwhheetthheerr tthhee ccoonnssoolliiddaatteedd ffiinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss aarree ffrreeee ffrroomm mmaatteerriiaall mmiissssttaatteemmeenntt..
MMiissssttaatteemmeennttss mmaayy aarriissee dduuee ttoo ffrraauudd oorr eerrrroorr.. TThheeyy aarree ccoonnssiiddeerreedd mmaatteerriiaall iiff,, iinnddiivviidduuaallllyy oorr iinn aaggggrreeggaattee,,
tthheeyy ccoouulldd rreeaassoonnaabbllyy bbee eexxppeecctteedd ttoo iinnfflluueennccee tthhee eeccoonnoommiicc ddeecciissiioonnss ooff uusseerrss ttaakkeenn oonn tthhee bbaassiiss ooff tthhee
ccoonnssoolliiddaatteedd ffiinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss..
BBaasseedd oonn oouurr pprrooffeessssiioonnaall jjuuddggmmeenntt,, wwee ddeetteerrmmiinneedd cceerrttaaiinn qquuaannttiittaattiivvee tthhrreesshhoollddss ffoorr mmaatteerriiaalliittyy,, iinncclluuddiinngg
tthhee oovveerraallll GGrroouupp mmaatteerriiaalliittyy ffoorr tthhee ccoonnssoolliiddaatteedd ffiinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss aass aa wwhhoollee aass sseett oouutt iinn tthhee ttaabbllee bbeellooww..
TThheessee,, ttooggeetthheerr wwiitthh qquuaalliittaattiivvee ccoonnssiiddeerraattiioonnss,, hheellppeedd uuss ttoo ddeetteerrmmiinnee tthhee ssccooppee ooff oouurr aauuddiitt aanndd tthhee nnaattuurree,,
ttiimmiinngg aanndd eexxtteenntt ooff oouurr aauuddiitt pprroocceedduurreess aanndd ttoo eevvaalluuaattee tthhee eeffffeecctt ooff mmiissssttaatteemmeennttss,, bbootthh iinnddiivviidduuaallllyy aanndd
iinn aaggggrreeggaattee,, oonn tthhee ccoonnssoolliiddaatteedd ffiinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss aass aa wwhhoollee..
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 167
22
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
[Page 170]
Independent auditor’s report continued
IInnddeeppeennddeenntt aauuddiittoorr’s’s r reeppoorrt tt oto t hthee s hshaarerheholodledresr so fo Sf aSuaduid Ai rAarbaibaina n
OOiill CCoommppaannyy ((ccoonnttiinnuueedd))
OOuvre raauldl iGt raopuppr oach SAR 28.1 billion (2020: SAR 14.2 billion)
materiality
Overview
How we determined it Approximately 4% of income before income taxes and zakat
R ationale for the ● InWcoem dee tbeerfmorien eindc oovmeer atallx Gesr oaunpd zmakataetr iisa alinty i mtapkoinrtga nint tboe anccchomuanrtk t fhoer pthroe fit-
materiality benchmark Gorroiuepn’tse dst nakaetuhroeld oefr tsh aen Gdr oisu ap .g enerally accepted benchmark for profit-
applied ● orBiaensetedd o gnr oinucposm. e before income taxes and zakat of SAR 769.5 billion, we
determined our overall Group materiality at SAR 28.1 billion.
Materiality
● Our quantitative threshold for reporting misstatements to those charged
We agreed with those charged with governance that we would report to them misstatements identified during
with governance was set at SAR 1.9 billion.
our audit above SAR 1.9 billion.
H ow we tailored our Group Baausdedit osnc othpeei r size, complexity and risk:
● We considered the Company’s standalone operations and four other
We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on
Group components located in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the United States of
t he consolidated financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group, the
scoping America and the Republic of Korea as significant to the Group audit; and
accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
● We also determined a number of other components to be in scope for the
Group audit, in respect of which appropriate audit procedures were
The Group’s operations are conducted through many components in several parts of the world. The most
performed.
significant component within the Group is the Company itself and most of the audit effort was spent by the
Group engaKgeemye antu tdeiatm based in Dhahran, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The Group engagement team tested
IT general comntarotltse, rasp plication Oanudr kmeayn auuadli tc omnatrtotelsr so cvoemr spyrsitseem ths ea nfodl lpowroicnegs:s es related to the Company’s
financial information suppleme●n teAds bseys tsemstesn ot fo df erteaciol vaenrda bainliatyly otifc tahl ep groocoeddwuirlel sa.n Cde brtraainnd a ruedciot gpnriosceedd ausr epsa rt
were carried out by the Group engagoefm theen tS taeuadmi wBaitshic a sInsidstuasntrciee fsr oCmor ipnotrearntiaoln a (c“cSoAunBtIiCn”g), vaaclquuaitsiiotnio, np;e annsido n,
tax and IT experts and specialis●ts . AThcceo Gurnotuinpg e fnogra tgheem oeiln pt itpeealmin easls tor adnirseacctteido nth. e work done by the various
component teams across different locations and performed audit procedures on the consolidation workings
a nd disclosures.
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in
Wthee idcoenntsiofileidda ftoeudr faidndainticoianla ls staigtnemifiecnantst. cIonm ppoarnteicnutsla wr,h ewree ac ofunlsl isdceorpeed awudhietr oen t thhee Breosapredc toivfe Dcoirmecptoonres nmtsa’ de
fsiunbanjeccitailv ein jfuodrmgmateionnts ;w faosr peexrafomrpmleed, iunn rdeesrp eocutr oinf sstirguncitfiiocnasn.t Macecmoubenrtsin ogf etshteim Gartoeus pt heantg aingvemolvenedt tmeaamki ng
paesrsfuomrmpteido nths ea fnudll csoconpsied aeuridnigt offu tthuere s iegvneinfitcsa ntht acto marpeo innehnetr leonctalyte du nince Drthaainh.r aAns, Kini nagldl oomf o oufr S aauuddiit As,r awbei aa. lso
Caodmdrpeosnseedn t ttheaem rsi sikn Roify amdha,n Kaginegmdeonmt oof vSearuriddie A roafb iian, ttehren aUl nictoendt Srotalst,e s ionfc lAumdienrgic aa amnodn tgh eo Rtheepru bmlica totfe rs,
Kcoonresaid peerarftoiornm oedf wfuhlel tshceorp teh earued iwtsa so fe vthidee ncocme opfo bnieanst sth aatt trheopsree sloencatetido nas r. isWke o fa lmsoa treerqiuale smteisds tcaetretmainen ott dhuere to
cforamupdo. nent teams to perform appropriate audit procedures. The selection of these components was based on
q ualitative and quantitative considerations, including whether the component accounted for a significant
proportion of individual consolidated financial statement line items.
Materiality
TThhee Gsrcoouppe eonfg aoguerm aeundti tte wamas’s iinnfvloulevnecmeden bt yin o tuhre aaupdpilti cwaotirokn p eorff omrmateedr ibayli tcyo.m Apno naeundti tte iasm dse csoignnsiedde rteod othbeta in
rreelaastoivnea bsilgen aifsiscuanracne caen wd hceotmheprl etxhiety c oofn stholei dinatdeidvi dfiunaaln ccoiaml psotanteenmt.e nTthsi sa rine cflruedee dfr oamllo cmaatitnegr iaolv emraislls tGatreomupe nt.
mMaistesrtaiatleimty etno ttsh me dayif faerriesnet d cuoem tpoo fnraenutds ,o sre enrdrionrg. Tfohremy aalr ien cstornuscitdioenresd, ombtaatienriinagl irfe, ginudlairv iudpudaalltye so or nin p argoggrreesgsa te,
athnedy r ecsouulltds orfe apsroonceadbulyr ebs ea se xwpeellc taesd r etvoi eiwnfilnuge ndceeli vtehrea belceosn aonmd itch ed erceilseivoannst uonf duesrelrysi ntga kweonr koinn gt hpea pbearssi.s of the
consolidated financial statements.
K ey audit matters
Based on our professional judgment, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit
the overall Group materiality for the consolidated financial statements as a whole as set out in the table below.
of the consolidated financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature,
of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we
timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and
do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
in aggregate, on the consolidated financial statements as a whole.
168 Saudi Aramco Annual Report3 2 021
2
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
OOuvre raauldl iGt raopuppr oach
materiality
R ationale for the
materiality benchmark
applied
[Page 171]
Consolidated
financial statements
IInnddeeppeennddeenntt aauuddiittoorr’’ss rreeppoorrtt ttoo tthhee sshhaarreehhoollddeerrss ooff S Saauuddi iA Arraabbiaiann
OOiill C Coommppaannyy ((ccoonnttiinnuueedd))
OKuery a auuddiitt ampaptrteora c h How our audit addressed the Key audit
matter
OAvsesrevsisemwe nt of recoverability of the goodwill
and brand recognised as part of the SABIC
acquisition
● We determined overall Group materiality taking into account the profit-
oriented nature of the Group.
International Accounting Standard (“IAS”) 36 Our procedures included the following:
● Based on income before income taxes and zakat of SAR 769.5 billion, we
‘Impairment of Assets’, that is endorsed in the
determined our overa●ll WGreo ruepvi mewaetder tihaeli tayp aptr oSpArRia 2te8n.e1 sbsi lolfi omna. nagement’s
Kingd om
M
of
a t
S
e
a
r
u
i
d
a
i
l i
A
ty
ra bia, r
●
eq u
O
ir
u
e
r
s
q
g
u
o
a
o
n
d
t
w
ita
il
t
l
i v
a
e
n
t
d
h reshaolllodc faotiro rne opfo grtoiondgw milli stsot athteem Deonwtns sttor etahmos oep cehraartignegd
intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives to be
with governance was seste agtm SeAnRt 1a.9n db ilbliroann.d to the aggregation of the
tested annually, irrespective of whether there is any
relevant cash-generating units, based on the
indication of impairment.
requirements of IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’, that
M anagement performed a
B
n
a sed
a
o
ss
n
e
t
s
h
sm
eir
e n
s
t
iz e, c
o
o
f
mpl
i
e
s
x
e
it
n
y
d
a
o
n
rs
d
e
r
d
i s
in
k:
t he Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
● We considered the Company’s standalone operations and four other
recoverability of the goodwill and brand (determined ● We considered the completeness of the carrying
Group components located in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the United States of
to have an indefinite useful life) recognised as part of values of the assets and liabilities considered as
scoping America and the Republic of Korea as significant to the Group audit; and
the SABIC acquisition. The carrying amounts of these part of the impairment tests for the goodwill and
● We also determined a number of other components to be in scope for the
assets were SAR 99.1 billion and SAR 18.2 billion, brand.
Group audit, in respect of which appropriate audit procedures were
respectively, at December 31, 2021.
performed.
● With input from internal valuation experts, where
Goodwill has been allocated to the Downstream considered necessary, we performed the following
operating Kesyeg amuednitt. Therefore, the goodwill procedures on management’s valuation models, as
i mpairmentm teasttt ewrass performeOdu art k tehye a Dudowit nmstartetaemrs comdpereimsee tdh aep fporlloopwriiantge::
operating segment level. T●h e Asbsreasnsdm entets ot f rwecaos vera-b iCliotyn soifd tehree dg oodtwheil l ancdo nbsriasntedn rceyc ognofis ed caesr tpaainrt
performed based on an aggregatoiof nth oef Stahued rie Bleavsaicn tI ndustruineso bCsoerrpvoabralet iionnp (u“tSs AuBnIdCe”r)ly aincqgu tihseit 1io0n-y; eaanrd c ash
cash-generating units. ● Accounting for the oil pipfeloliwnes s sturacnh saacst ioexnp. e cted product volumes and
future costs with approved financial plans;
The recoverable amounts were determined based on
value-in-use calculations derived using discounted
- Compared a sample of forecast commodity prices
Acsa pshar ftl oowf dmeosidgenlsin. Tg hoeu mr aouddeilts, w weer ed betaesremd ionne tdh me matoesrti ality aanndd a mssaersgsiends tuhned reirslkysi nogf tmhae t1e0r-iayle amr icsasstaht eflmowens tt oin
market data points;
threec ecnont sofliindaantecdia lf inapnlacnias l satantde meinnctlsu. dIend pa1r0ti-cyuelaarr , we considered where the Board of Directors made
- Evaluated the reasonableness of approved
supbrojejecctitvioen j updegrmioedns tsw; iftohr teexramminpalel , vianl ureess paescstu mofe dsi gnificant accounting estimates that involved making
financial plans by comparison to historical
atshsuermeapfttieorn. s and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also
results;
ad dressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including among other matters,
The exercise performed by management supported - Assessed the reasonableness of the approach and
cothnes igdoeordatwioilnl aonf dw hbreathnedr ctahrerryein wga vsa eluviedse anncde odfi db inaos tt hat re
i
p
n
r
p
e
u
s
t
e
s
n
u
te
s
d
ed
a
t
r
o
i s
d
k
e t
o
e
f
r
m
mi
a
n
t
e
e r
t
i
h
a
e
l m
te
i
r
s
m
st
i
a
n
t
a
e
l
m
va
e
l
n
u
t
e
d
s;
u e to
friaduedn.t ify the need for any impairment charges to be - Evaluated the reasonableness of the pre-tax
recognised. discount rates used by cross-checking the
M ateriality underlying assumptions against observable
We considered this to be a key audit matter given the
market data;
Tshieg nsicfiocpaen to f eosutirm aautdesit winavs oilnvfeldu enicne d dbeyt eorumr inaipnpgl ication of materiality. An audit is designed to obtain
- Tested the mathematical accuracy and logical
rereacsoovnearbalbel ea sasmuroaunnctes awnhde tthhee ru nthcee rctaoinnstoyl iidnahteerde nfti nina ncial statements are free from material misstatement.
integrity of the models; and
the underlying forecasts and assumptions. The key
Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if, individually or in aggregate,
- Tested management’s sensitivity analyses that
inputs to the recoverable amounts included the:
they could reasonably be expected to influence the econocmoincs iddeecriesdio tnhse oimf upsaecrt so ft ackheann goens itnh ea sbsuasmisp toifo nths e
● Cash flows during the 10-year periods including
consolidated financial statements. on the outcome of the impairment assessments.
the commodity prices, margins and other
underlying assumptions; ● We considered the reasonableness of the
Based on our professional judgment, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including
● Terminal values; and movements in recoverable amounts during the year
th
●
e o
P
v
r
e
e
r
-
a
ta
ll
x
G
d
r
i
o
sc
u
o
p
u
m
nt
a
r
t
a
er
te
ia
s
l
.
i ty for the consolidated financiael nsdtaetde mDeecnetms abse ar 3w1h, o2l0e2 a1s. set out in the table below.
T hese, together with qualitative considerations, helped u
●
s
W
to
e
d
c
e
o
t
n
er
s
m
id
i
e
n
re
e
d
t h
t
e
h
s
e
c
a
o
p
p
p
e
r
o
o
f
p
o
r
u
ia
r
t e
a
n
u
e
d
s
i
s
t a
o
n
f
d
t h
th
e
e
r
n
el
a
a
t
t
u
e
r
d
e ,
Refer to Note 2(e), Note 2(h), Note 6 and Note
timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and
accounting policies and disclosures in the
35(a)(i) to the consolidated financial statements for
in aggregate, on the consolidated financial statements as cao wnhsoollied.a ted financial statements.
further information.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 146 9
2
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
OKuery a auuddiitt ampaptrteora c h |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | How our audit addressed the Key audit
matter |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
O
A
t
s
a
a
c
f
T
r
M
t
c
B
t
T
ti
i | Avsesrevsisemwe nt of recoverability of the goodwill |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | e
t
e
e
r
a
e
d
e
d
e
v
n
o
a
r ,
i g
i
t
i
n
a
e
e
n
d
l
s | rall Group materiality taking into account the profit-
he Group.
Our procedures included the following:
fore income taxes and zakat of SAR 769.5 billion, we
ra●ll WGreo ruepvi mewaetder tihaeli tayp aptr oSpArRia 2te8n.e1 sbsi lolfi omna. nagement’s
eshaolllodc faotiro rne opfo grtoiondgw milli stsot athteem Deonwtns sttor etahmos oep cehraartignegd
s seste agtm SeAnRt 1a.9n db ilbliroann.d to the aggregation of the
relevant cash-generating units, based on the
requirements of IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’, that
mplexity and risk:
is endorsed in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Company’s standalone operations and four other
● We considered the completeness of the carrying
in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the United States of
values of the assets and liabilities considered as
public of Korea as significant to the Group audit; and
part of the impairment tests for the goodwill and
a number of other components to be in scope for the
brand.
spect of which appropriate audit procedures were
● With input from internal valuation experts, where
considered necessary, we performed the following
procedures on management’s valuation models, as
comdpereimsee tdh aep fporlloopwriiantge::
era-b iCliotyn soifd tehree dg oodtwheil l ancdo nbsriasntedn rceyc ognofis ed caesr tpaainrt
dustruineso bCsoerrpvoabralet iionnp (u“tSs AuBnIdCe”r)ly aincqgu tihseit 1io0n-y; eaanrd c ash
il pipfeloliwnes s sturacnh saacst ioexnp. e cted product volumes and
future costs with approved financial plans;
- Compared a sample of forecast commodity prices
lity aanndd a mssaersgsiends tuhned reirslkysi nogf tmhae t1e0r-iayle amr icsasstaht eflmowens tt oin
market data points;
we considered where the Board of Directors made
- Evaluated the reasonableness of approved
nificant accounting estimates that involved making
financial plans by comparison to historical
inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also
results;
nternal controls, including among other matters,
- Assessed the reasonableness of the approach and
hat represented a risk of material misstatement due to
inputs used to determine the terminal values;
- Evaluated the reasonableness of the pre-tax
discount rates used by cross-checking the
underlying assumptions against observable
market data;
cation of materiality. An audit is designed to obtain
- Tested the mathematical accuracy and logical
cial statements are free from material misstatement.
integrity of the models; and
re considered material if, individually or in aggregate,
- Tested management’s sensitivity analyses that
conocmoincs iddeecriesdio tnhse oimf upsaecrt so ft ackheann goens itnh ea sbsuasmisp toifo nths e
on the outcome of the impairment assessments.
● We considered the reasonableness of the
rtain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including
movements in recoverable amounts during the year
ciael nsdtaetde mDeecnetms abse ar 3w1h, o2l0e2 a1s. set out in the table below.
us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature,
● We considered the appropriateness of the related
uate the effect of misstatements, both individually and
accounting policies and disclosures in the
as cao wnhsoollied.a ted financial statements. |
| and brand recognised as part of the SABIC |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| acquisition |  |  |  |  | ● We determined ov |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| oriented nature of |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| International Accounting Standard (“IAS”) 36
● Based on income b |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| ‘Impairment of Assets’, that is endorsed in the |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| determined our ov
M a t e r i a l i ty
Kingd om of S a u d i A ra bia, requires goodwill and |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| ● Our quantitative th
intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives to be |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| with governance w
tested annually, irrespective of whether there is any |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| indication of impairment. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Based on their size, co
Management performed an assessment of |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| rec | overability of
Group |  |  |  |  | ● We considered th
the goodwill and brand (determined |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| to | have an indefi |  |  |  |  | components locate
nite useful life) recognised as part of |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| the | scoping
SABIC acqui |  |  |  |  | America and the R
sition. The carrying amounts of these |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| assets were |  |  |  |  | ● We also determine
SAR 99.1 billion and SAR 18.2 billion, |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Group audit, in r
respectively, at December 31, 2021. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| performed. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Goodwill has been allocated to the Downstream |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| operating |  | Kesyeg amuednitt. |  |  |  |  |  |  | Therefore, the goodwill |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| i mpairm |  | entm teasttt ewrass p |  |  |  |  |  |  | erformeOdu art k tehye a Dudowit nmstartetaemrs |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| operating segment level. T●h e Asbsreasnsdm entets ot f rwecaos |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| performed based on an aggregatoiof nth oef Stahued rie Bleavsaicn tI |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| cash-generating units. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | ● Accounting for the |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| The recoverable amounts were determined based on |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| value-in-use calculations derived using discounted |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| csa pshar ftl oowf dmeosidgenlsin. Tg hoeu mr aouddeilts, w weer ed betaesremd ionne tdh me matoesrti |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| hreec ecnont sofliindaantecdia lf inapnlacnias l satantde meinnctlsu. dIend pa1r0ti-cyuelaar |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| upbrojejecctitvioen j updegrmioedns tsw; iftohr teexramminpalel , vianl ureess paescstu mofe ds |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| tshsuermeapfttieorn. |  |  | s and considering future events that are |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| ddressed the risk of management override of
The exercise performed by management supported |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| othnes igdoeordatwioilnl aonf dw hbreathnedr ctahrerryein wga vsa eluviedse anncde odfi db inaos t |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| riaduedn.t ify the need for any impairment charges to be |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| recognised. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Materiality
We considered this to be a key audit matter given the |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| shieg nsicfiocpaen to f eosutirm aautdesit winavs oilnvfeldu enicne d dbeyt eorumr inaipnpgl |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| ereacsoovnearbalbel ea sasmuroaunnctes awnhde tthhee ru nthcee rctaoinnstoyl iidnahteerde nfti nina |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| the underlying forecasts and assumptions. The key
isstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| inputs to the recoverable amounts included the: |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| hey could reasonably be expected to influence the
● Cash flows during the 10-year periods including |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| on | solidated financial statements.
the commodity prices, margins and other |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  | underlying assumptions; |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| ased on our professiona
● Terminal values; and |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | l judgment, we determined c |  |  |  |  |  |
| he overall Group material
● Pre-tax discount rates. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | ity for the consolidated fina |  |  |  |  |
| hese, together with qualitative considerations, helpe |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Refer to Note 2(e), Note 2(h), Note 6 and Note
ming and extent of our audit procedures and to eva |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| 35(a)(i) to the consolidated financial statements for |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| n aggregate, on the c
further information. |  |  |  |  |  |  | onsolidated financial statement |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
[Page 172]
Independent auditor’s report continued
IInnddeeppeennddeenntt aauuddiittoorr’’ss rreeppoorrtt ttoo tthhee sshhaarreehhoollddeerrss ooff SSaauuddii AArraabbiiaann
OOiill CCoommppaannyy ((ccoonnttiinnuueedd))
KOeuyr aauuddiitt mapapttreora c h How our audit addressed the Key audit
matter
OAvcecorvuinetwin g for the oil pipelines transaction
T he Company sold a 49% equi●ty iWntee rdeestte rinm Ainreadm ocvoe raOllu Gr rporuopc emduarteersi ainlictlyu dtaekdi nthge i nfotoll oawccinogu:n t the profit-
Oil Pipelines Company (“AOPC”) ionr Jieunntee 2d0 n2a1t utor eE oIGf t he Group.
Pearl Holdings S.à.r.l. (“EIG●” ) Bfaosre du opnfr ionncto msael eb efo●r e Winec omhee ltda xedsi sacnuds sziaoknast owf SitAhR m76a9n.5a gbeimllieonnt, wteo
proceeds of SAR 46.5 billion. determined our overall Gurnoduepr smtaantedr tiahleit lye gaat lS sAtrRu c2t8u.r1e b oifl ltihone .a rrangement
Materiality
● Our quantitative threshoalndd f otrh ere npaotrutirneg o mf tirsasntastaecmtieonntss otno tfhinoasnec ciahla rcgloesde
As part of the arrangement, immewdiiathte glyo vperrionra ntoc eth wea s set aant dS AdRur 1in.9g bthileli o2n5.- year period.
sale, the Company leased usage rights to its stabilized
crude oil pipelines to AOPC for a 25-year period. ● We read the relevant agreements and considered
Based on their size, complexity and risk:
Simultaneously, AOPC granted the Company the the consistency of the underlying terms and
● We considered the Company’s standalone operations and four other
exclusive right to use, operate and maintain the conditions with the accounting treatments.
Group components located in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the United States of
pipelines during this period in exchange for a tariff.
scoping America and the Republic of Korea as significant to the Group audit; and
The Company retained title to, and operational ● With input from internal accounting specialists,
control of, the pipelines. ● We also determined a nuwmeb ceorn osfi doethreedr caopmprpoopnreianttesn teos sb eo fi nth sec oapceco fuonr ttihneg
Group audit, in respectt reoaf tmwhenicth o fa: p propriate audit procedures were
Under the agreed terms and cpoenrdfoitriomnesd, . EIG is - AOPC as a non-wholly owned subsidiary;
entitled to receive dividend distributions from AOPC and
Key audit
based o n its share of available cash, when the - Sale proceeds as a non-controlling interest,
matters Our key audit matters comprise the following:
Company pays discretionary dividends to its keeping in mind the potential alternative
● Assessment of recoverability of the goodwill and brand recognised as part
ordinary shareholders. treatment as a borrowing.
of the Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (“SABIC”) acquisition; and
● Accounting for the oil pipelines transaction.
Given the discretionary nature of EIG’s entitlement ● With input from internal valuation experts, where
to dividends, the upfront sale proceeds have been considered necessary, we assessed the
recognized as a non-controlling interest in the reasonableness of the carrying value determined
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in
consolidated financial statements. by management of AOPC’s net assets (including
t he consolidated financial statements. In particular, we tchoen staidriefrfe rde lwatheedr ea stsheet) Bimoamrde doiaf tDeliyr epcrtioorrs tmo athdee
sWube jceocntisvied ejrueddg mtheisn ttos; b feo ar keexya amupdliet, m ina ttreers pgeivcetn o tfh esi gnificsaanlet . accounting estimates that involved making
ansastuumrep atinodn sm aantder icaolnitsyi doefr tinhge tfruatnusrea cetivoenn tass twhaetl l aarse in herently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also
athded rjuesdsgemd entht ein vroislvke do ifn dmeatneramgeinminengt t hoev aecrcroiduen tionfg in●te rnWael ccoonnstirdoelrse, d itnhcelu adpipnrgo parmiaotennge sos tohfe trh em raeltatetersd,
ctroenastimdeernatt ioofn t ohfe w shaleet hperro tcheeerdes waas sa e nviodne-nccoen torfo blliiansg t hat reapcrceosuennttiendg a rpioskli coief sm aatenrdia l dmisiscslotastuermese nti nd uet hteo
firnatuedre. st. consolidated financial statements.
MReafeter ritaol ityN ote 2(d) and Note 34(a) to the
consolidated financial statements for further
Tinhfeo rsmcoapteio nof. our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. An audit is designed to obtain
reasonable assurance whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement.
Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if, individually or in aggregate,
they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the
consolidated financial statements.
Based on our professional judgment, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including
the overall Group materiality for the consolidated financial statements as a whole as set out in the table below.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature,
timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and
in aggregate, on the consolidated financial statements as a whole.
170 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
5
2
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |
KOeuyr aauuddiitt mapapttreora c h | How our audit addressed the Key audit
matter |
|  |
Under the agreed terms and cpoenrdfoitriomnesd, . EIG is |  |
entitled to receive dividend distributions from AOPC |  |
| receive divid |
based o n | Key audit
its share o | f available cash, when the
matters Our key audit matters
Company pays discretionary dividends to its | matters
pays discr |
ordinary shareholders. |  |
● Accounting for the
Given the discretionary nature of EIG’s entitlement
to dividends, the upfront sale proceeds have been
recognized as a non-controlling interest in the
As part of designing our audit, we
consolidated financial statements.
[Page 173]
Consolidated
financial statements
IInnddeeppeennddeenntt aauuddiittoorr’’ss rreeppoorrtt ttoo tthhee sshhaarreehhoollddeerrss ooff SSaauuddii AArraabbiiaann
OOiill CCoommppaannyy ((ccoonnttiinnuueedd))
Other information
Our audit approach
The Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the Annual
Overview
Report (but does not include the consolidated financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon).
● We determined overall Group materiality taking into account the profit-
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not
oriented nature of the Group.
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
● Based on income before income taxes and zakat of SAR 769.5 billion, we
determined our overall Group materiality at SAR 28.1 billion.
Materiality
In conn ection with our audit of
●
t h
O
e
u
co
r
n
q
s
u
o
a
li
n
d
t
a
it
t
a
e
t
d
i v
f
e
in
t
a
h
n
r
c
e
i
s
a
h
l
o
s
l
t
d
a t
f
e
o
m
r
e
re
n
p
ts
o
,
r
o
ti
u
n
r
g
r
m
es
i
p
s
o
st
n
a
s
t
i
e
b
m
ili
e
t
n
y
t
i
s
s
t
t
o
o
t
r
h
e
o
a
s
d
e
t h
ch
e
a
o
r
t
g
h
e
e
d
r
information identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
with governance was set at SAR 1.9 billion.
inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise
appears to be materially misstated.
Based on their size, complexity and risk:
● We considered the Company’s standalone operations and four other
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other
Group components located in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the United States of
information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
scoping America and the Republic of Korea as significant to the Group audit; and
● We also determined a number of other components to be in scope for the
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and those charged with governance for the
Group audit, in respect of which appropriate audit procedures were
consolidated financial statempeernfotrsm ed.
The Boar d oKf eDyi raeuctdoirts is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial
matters Our key audit matters comprise the following:
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, that are endorsed in the
● Assessment of recoverability of the goodwill and brand recognised as part
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and other standards and pronouncements issued by SOCPA, and the applicable
of the Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (“SABIC”) acquisition; and
requirements of the Regulations for Companies and the Company’s Bylaws, and for such internal control as
● Accounting for the oil pipelines transaction.
they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the
the consolidated financial statements. In particular, we considered where the Board of Directors made
Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and
subjective judgments; for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making
using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the
assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also
Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including among other matters,
consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process.
fraud.
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements
Materiality
OThuer osbcojepcet ivoef so aurre atou doibt tawians r einafslouneanbcleed a bssyu oraunr caep apbloicuatt iwohne othf emr tahteer ciaolnitsyo.l iAdnat eadu dfiint ains cdiaels isgtanteedm teon tosb atas ian
wrehaosolen aarbel ef raeses ufrroamnc em watheertiahle mr tihsset actoenmsoenlitd,a wtehde tfhinear ndcuiael tsot afrteamude notrs earrreo rf,r eaen dfr toom is msuaet earnia al umdiitsosrta’st ermepeonrtt.
tMhaists itnatcelumdeenst os umr aoyp ainriisoen .d Ruee atsoo fnraaublde oars seurrroarn.c Te hise ya ahrieg cho lnesviedle orfe das msuartaenricael, ibf,u itn idsi vniodtu aa lglyu aorra innt eaeg gtrheagta atne,
athuedyi tc coounlddu rcetaesdo inna abclyc obred aenxcpee cwtietdh tIon tienrfnluaetinocnea lt hSeta encdoanrodms oicn dAeucdisiitoinngs, othf auts aerres etankdeonr soend itnh eth bea Ksiisn godf othme
ocof nSsaouldidi aAtreadb fiain, awnilcli aallw staaytse dmeetnectst .a mater ial misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud
o r error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to
iBnafslueedn ocne othuer pecroofneosmsioicn dael cjuisdigomnse onft ,u wseer ds ettaekremni onned t hcee rbtaaisnis q oufa tnhteistaet civoen tshorliedsahtoeldd sfi fnoarn mciaatle srtiaatleitmy,e inntcsl.u ding
the overall Group materiality for the consolidated financial statements as a whole as set out in the table below.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature,
timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and
in aggregate, on the consolidated financial statements as a whole.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 171
6
2
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
[Page 174]
Independent auditor’s report continued
IInnddeeppeennddeenntt aauuddiittoorr’’ss rreeppoorrtt ttoo tthhee sshhaarreehhoollddeerrss ooff SSaauuddii AArraabbiiaann
OOiill CCoommppaannyy ((ccoonnttiinnuueedd))
AOsu pra ratu odf aitn aaupdpitr iona acchco rdance with International Standards on Auditing, that are endorsed in the Kingdom
o f Saudi Arabia, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the
aOuvdeitr.v Wieew a l so:
● Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether
● We determined overall Group materiality taking into account the profit-
due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit
oriented nature of the Group.
evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a
● Based on income before income taxes and zakat of SAR 769.5 billion, we
material misstatement resultidnegt efrrommin ferda uodu ri so vheirgahlel rG trhoaunp fmora toenriea lrietys ualtt iSnAgR fr 2o8m.1 ebrirloliro,n a. s fraud may
Materiality
inv olve collusion, forgery, i●n teOnutiro nqaula onmtitiasstiivoen st,h mreisshreopldr efsoern rteaptioorntisn, go rm thises toavteermriednet so ft oin ttheornsea lc choanrtgreodl.
with governance was set at SAR 1.9 billion.
● Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that
are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Group’sB iansteedrn oanl cthoenitrr osilz. e, complexity and risk:
● We considered the Company’s standalone operations and four other
● Ev
G
alu
ro
at
u
e
p
th e appropriateness o
c
f
o
a
m
c
p
co
o
u
n
n
e
t
n
i
t
n
s
g
l o
p
c
o
a
li
t
c
e
i
d
e s
i n
u s
t
e
h
d
e
a
K
n
i
d
n g
t
d
h
o
e
m
re a
o
s
f
o
S
n
a
a
u
b
d
l
i
e n
A
e
r
s
a
s
b
o
ia
f
,
a
t
c
h
c
e
o u
U
n
n
t
i
i
t
n
e
g
d
e
S
s
t
t
a
im
te
a
s
t
o
e
f
s
ansdc oreplaintegd disclosures made b
A
y
m
th
er
e
i c
B
a
o
a
a
n
rd
d
o
th
f
e
D
R
ir
e
e
p
ct
u
o
b
r
l
s
ic
.
of Korea as significant to the Group audit; and
● Conclude on the appropria●te nWeses oalfs toh ed eBtoeramrdi noef dD air necutmorbse’ ru osef ootfh tehre cgoominpgo cnoennctes rtno bbaes iins oscf oapcceo fuonr ttihneg
and, based on the audit evideGnrcoeu opb taauindeitd, , iwnh reethspeer cat mofa twerhiiaclh u nacpeprrtoapinrtiya teex iasutsd irte lparteodce tdou erevse nwtse roer
conditions that may cast signipfeicrafonrtm deodu.b t on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we
conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to
Key audit
the r elat
m
ed
a
d
t
i
t
s
e
c
r
lo
s
s ures in thOeu cro knesyo laiduadtiet dm fainttaenrcsi caol mstaptreisme etnhtes foorll, oifw siuncgh: disclosures are inadequate, to
modify our opinion. Our c●o ncAlsusseiossnms eanret obfa rseecdo voenr atbhieli tayu odfi tt heev igdoeondcwe iollb atnaidn bedra nupd rteoc othgen idsaedte a os fp oaurtr
auditor’s report. However, futoufr teh ee vSeanutds io Bra csoicn Idnitdiounstsr imesa Cy ocrapuosrea ttihoen G (“rSoAupB ItCo” )c eaacsqeu tisoi tcioonnt; iannude as a
going concern. ● Accounting for the oil pipelines transaction.
● Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements,
including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in
transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
the consolidated financial statements. In particular, we considered where the Board of Directors made
●su bjOecbttiavein jusdugffmiceienntts ; afpoprr oepxarimatpel ea, uidni tr eesvpidecetn coef rseiggnairfdicinang t thacec ofiunnatninciga le sintifmoramteast itohna to fin tvhoelv eend timtieask inorg
assubmupsitnioensss aacntdiv ictoienss widiethriinng t hfuet Gurreo uepv etno tesx tphraets sa aren ionphinerioennt olyn uthnec ecrotnasino.l iAdast eind failnl aonfc oiaulr s taautdemitse,n wtse. aWlseo
addraerses erdes ptohne sirbilsek foorf thme adniargeectmioenn,t suopveerrvriisdieo no af nidn tpeerrnfaolr mcaonnctero olsf, thine cGlurdoiunpg aaumdiot.n Wg eo trhemera imn astotleerlsy,
consriedseproantisoinb loef f owrh oeuthr earu tdhiet roep winaiso ne.v idence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to
fraud.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope
and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control
Materiality
that we identify during our audit.
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. An audit is designed to obtain
Wreaes aolnsoa bplreo avsidsue rtahnocsee cwhhaertgheedr wthiteh cgoonvseornliadnatceed w fiitnha an cstiaalt esmtaetnemt tehnatts w aer eh afvreee c ofrmompl iemda wteirthia rl emleivsasntatt eetmhiecnatl.
rMeqisusitraetmemenentst sr emgaayrd airnigse i nddueep teon fdreanucde o, ra nerdr otor. cTohmeym aurnei ccaotnes iwdietrhe dth memat earlila rle ilfa, tiinodnisvhidipusa allny do ro itnh earg mgraetgtaetres,
tthhaeyt mcoauyl dre aresaosnoanbalyb lbye bteh oeuxgphetc tteod b etoa ri nonfl uoeunrc ien dtheep eencdoennocme,i ca ndde cwishioernes aopfp uliscearbsl et,a rkeelna toedn stahfee gbuaasrisd so. f the
consolidated financial statements.
Based on our professional judgme nt, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including
the overall Group materiality for the consolidated financial statements as a whole as set out in the table below.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature,
timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and
in aggregate, on the consolidated financial statements as a whole.
172 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
72
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
[Page 175]
Consolidated
financial statements
IInnddeeppeennddeenntt aauuddiittoorr’’ss rreeppoorrtt ttoo tthhee sshhaarreehhoollddeerrss ooff SSaauuddii AArraabbiiaann
OOiill CCoommppaannyy ((ccoonnttiinnuueedd))
FOruomr a thued mita attperpsr cooamcmhu nicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were
o f most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are
tOhveererfvoireew th e key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation
p recludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a
matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would
● We determined overall Group materiality taking into account the profit-
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
oriented nature of the Group.
● Based on income before income taxes and zakat of SAR 769.5 billion, we
determined our overall Group materiality at SAR 28.1 billion.
Materiality
Pricew aterhouseCoopers ● Our quantitative threshold for reporting misstatements to those charged
with governance was set at SAR 1.9 billion.
Based on their size, complexity and risk:
● We considered the Company’s standalone operations and four other
Group components located in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the United States of
Omar sMco. Apli nSagg ga
America and the Republic of Korea as significant to the Group audit; and
License No. 369 ● We also determined a number of other components to be in scope for the
Group audit, in respect of which appropriate audit procedures were
March 18, 2022 performed.
Key audit
matters Our key audit matters comprise the following:
● Assessment of recoverability of the goodwill and brand recognised as part
of the Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (“SABIC”) acquisition; and
● Accounting for the oil pipelines transaction.
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in
the consolidated financial statements. In particular, we considered where the Board of Directors made
subjective judgments; for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making
assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also
addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including among other matters,
consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to
fraud.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. An audit is designed to obtain
reasonable assurance whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement.
Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if, individually or in aggregate,
they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the
consolidated financial statements.
Based on our professional judgment, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including
the overall Group materiality for the consolidated financial statements as a whole as set out in the table below.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature,
timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and
in aggregate, on the consolidated financial statements as a whole.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 173
82
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
[Page 176]
Consolidated statement of income
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
Note 2021 2020 2021 2020
Revenue 24 1,346,930 768,109 359,181 204,829
Other income related to sales 154,828 93,982 41,287 25,062
Revenue and other income related to sales 1,501,758 862,091 400,468 229,891
Royalties and other taxes (144,793) (89,964) (38,611) (23,991)
Purchases 25 (352,377) (181,116) (93,967) (48,297)
Producing and manufacturing (76,495) (74,350) (20,399) (19,827)
Selling, administrative and general (59,496) (46,970) (15,866) (12,525)
Exploration (7,285) (7,293) (1,943) (1,945)
Research and development (3,873) (2,830) (1,033) (755)
Depreciation and amortization 5,6 (85,521) (76,208) (22,805) (20,322)
Operating costs (729,840) (478,731) (194,624) (127,662)
Operating income 771,918 383,360 205,844 102,229
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 7 7,874 (3,554) 2,100 (948)
Finance and other income 27 1,787 3,182 477 849
Finance costs 20 (12,058) (10,564) (3,215) (2,817)
Income before income taxes and zakat 769,521 372,424 205,206 99,313
Income taxes and zakat 8 (357,125) (188,661) (95,234) (50,310)
Net income 412,396 183,763 109,972 49,003
Net income (loss) attributable to
Shareholders' equity 395,203 184,926 105,387 49,313
Non-controlling interests 17,193 (1,163) 4,585 (310)
412,396 183,763 109,972 49,003
Earnings per share (basic and diluted) 37 1.98 0.93 0.53 0.25
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan Amin H. Nasser Ziad T. Al Murshed
Chairman of the Board President & Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer (Acting)
174 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
1,346,930
154,828
1,501,758
(144,793)
(352,377)
(76,495)
(59,496)
(7,285)
(3,873)
(85,521)
(729,840)
771,918
7,874
1,787
(12,058)
769,521
(357,125)
412,396
395,203
17,193
412,396
1.98
359,181
41,287
400,468
(38,611)
(93,967)
(20,399)
(15,866)
(1,943)
(1,033)
(22,805)
(194,624)
205,844
2,100
477
(3,215)
205,206
(95,234)
109,972
105,387
4,585
109,972
0.53
[Page 177]
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
Note 2021 2020 2021 2020
Net income 412,396 183,763 109,972 49,003
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax 18
Items that will not be reclassified to net income
Remeasurement of post-employment benefit obligations 10,190 (8,966) 2,717 (2,391)
Share of post-employment benefit obligations remeasurement
from joint ventures and associates 270 – 72 –
Changes in fair value of equity investments classified as fair value
through other comprehensive income 851 1,795 227 479
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to net income
Cash flow hedges and other 323 (300) 86 (80)
Changes in fair value of debt securities classified as fair value
through other comprehensive income (556) 297 (148) 79
Share of other comprehensive (loss) income of joint ventures
and associates (417) 550 (111) 147
Currency translation differences (2,798) 2,768 (746) 738
7,863 (3,856) 2,097 (1,028)
Total comprehensive income 420,259 179,907 112,069 47,975
Total comprehensive income (loss) attributable to
Shareholders' equity 403,586 180,960 107,623 48,256
Non-controlling interests 16,673 (1,053) 4,446 (281)
420,259 179,907 112,069 47,975
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan Amin H. Nasser Ziad T. Al Murshed
Chairman of the Board President & Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer (Acting)
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 175
[TABLE DATA]
412,396
10,190
270
851
323
(556)
(417)
(2,798)
7,863
420,259
403,586
16,673
420,259
109,972
2,717
72
227
86
(148)
(111)
(746)
2,097
112,069
107,623
4,446
112,069
[Page 178]
Consolidated balance sheet
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
SAR USD*
At December 31 At December 31
Note 2021 2020 2021 2020
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 5 1,244,316 1,209,460 331,818 322,523
Intangible assets 6 160,668 164,547 42,845 43,879
Investments in joint ventures and associates 7 69,559 65,976 18,549 17,594
Deferred income tax assets 8 14,969 15,280 3,992 4,075
Other assets and receivables 9 37,776 37,258 10,073 9,935
Investments in securities 10 24,161 22,861 6,443 6,096
1,551,449 1,515,382 413,720 404,102
Current assets
Inventories 11 74,703 51,999 19,921 13,867
Trade receivables 12 140,373 85,183 37,433 22,715
Due from the Government 13 41,317 28,895 11,018 7,705
Other assets and receivables 9 28,196 18,769 7,519 5,005
Short-term investments 14 27,073 6,801 7,219 1,814
Cash and cash equivalents 15 299,579 207,232 79,888 55,262
611,241 398,879 162,998 106,368
Total assets 2,162,690 1,914,261 576,718 510,470
Equity and liabilities
Shareholders' equity
Share capital 60,000 60,000 16,000 16,000
Additional paid-in capital 26,981 26,981 7,195 7,195
Treasury shares 16 (2,828) (3,264) (754) (870)
Retained earnings:
Unappropriated 1,018,443 895,273 271,585 238,739
Appropriated 6,000 6,000 1,600 1,600
Other reserves 18 4,661 5,858 1,243 1,562
1,113,257 990,848 296,869 264,226
Non-controlling interests 19 167,411 110,246 44,643 29,399
1,280,668 1,101,094 341,512 293,625
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 20 436,371 436,920 116,366 116,512
Deferred income tax liabilities 8 74,850 53,621 19,960 14,299
Post-employment benefit obligations 21 40,729 54,207 10,861 14,455
Provisions and other liabilities 22 26,244 25,208 6,998 6,722
578,194 569,956 154,185 151,988
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 23 124,689 93,740 33,251 24,998
Obligations to the Government:
Income taxes and zakat 8 90,525 42,059 24,140 11,216
Royalties 14,064 8,255 3,750 2,201
Borrowings 20 74,550 99,157 19,880 26,442
303,828 243,211 81,021 64,857
Total liabilities 882,022 813,167 235,206 216,845
Total equity and liabilities 2,162,690 1,914,261 576,718 510,470
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan Amin H. Nasser Ziad T. Al Murshed
Chairman of the Board President & Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer (Acting)
176 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
1,244,316
160,668
69,559
14,969
37,776
24,161
1,551,449
74,703
140,373
41,317
28,196
27,073
299,579
611,241
2,162,690
60,000
26,981
(2,828)
1,018,443
6,000
4,661
1,113,257
167,411
1,280,668
436,371
74,850
40,729
26,244
578,194
124,689
90,525
14,064
74,550
303,828
882,022
2,162,690
331,818
42,845
18,549
3,992
10,073
6,443
413,720
19,921
37,433
11,018
7,519
7,219
79,888
162,998
576,718
16,000
7,195
(754)
271,585
1,600
1,243
296,869
44,643
341,512
116,366
19,960
10,861
6,998
154,185
33,251
24,140
3,750
19,880
81,021
235,206
576,718
[Page 179]
Consolidated statement of changes in equity Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
SAR USD*
Shareholders' equity
Retained earnings
Additional Other Non-
Share paid-in Treasury reserves controlling
capital capital shares Unappropriated Appropriated1 (Note 18) interests Total Total
Balance at January 1, 2020 60,000 26,981 (3,750) 943,758 6,000 2,076 11,170 1,046,235 278,996
Net income (loss) – – – 184,926 – – (1,163) 183,763 49,003
Other comprehensive
(loss) income – – – – – (3,966) 110 (3,856) (1,028)
Total comprehensive
income (loss) – – – 184,926 – (3,966) (1,053) 179,907 47,975
Acquisition of subsidiary
(Note 35) – – – – – – 100,739 100,739 26,864
Transfer of post-
employment
benefit obligations
remeasurement (Note 18) – – – (7,722) – 7,722 – – –
Treasury shares issued to
employees (Note 16) – – 486 44 – (530) – – –
Share-based compensation – – – (24) – 556 – 532 142
Dividends (Note 36) – – – (225,709) – – – (225,709) (60,189)
Dividends to non-
controlling interests
and other – – – – – – (610) (610) (163)
Balance at December 31,
2020 60,000 26,981 (3,264) 895,273 6,000 5,858 110,246 1,101,094 293,625
Net income – – – 395,203 – – 17,193 412,396 109,972
Other comprehensive
income (loss) – – – – – 8,383 (520) 7,863 2,097
Total comprehensive
income – – – 395,203 – 8,383 16,673 420,259 112,069
Transfer of post-
employment
benefit obligations
remeasurement (Note 18) – – – 9,392 – (9,392) – – –
Transfer of share of
post-employment benefit
obligation remeasurement
from joint ventures and
associates (Note 18) – – – 270 – (270) – – –
Treasury shares issued to
employees (Note 16) – – 436 38 – (125) – 349 94
Share-based compensation – – – (13) – 207 – 194 52
Dividends (Note 36) – – – (281,305) – – – (281,305) (75,015)
Sale of non-controlling
equity interest in a
subsidiary (Note 34) – – – – – – 46,547 46,547 12,412
Change in ownership
interest of subsidiaries
(Notes 34, 35) – – – (415) – – 838 423 113
Dividends to non-
controlling interests
and other – – – – – – (6,893) (6,893) (1,838)
Balance at December 31,
2021 60,000 26,981 (2,828) 1,018,443 6,000 4,661 167,411 1,280,668 341,512
1. Appropriated retained earnings, originally established under the 1988 Articles of the Saudi Arabian Oil Company, represent a legal reserve which is not available for distribution. This
amount is maintained pursuant to the Bylaws adopted on January 1, 2018 (Note 1).
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan Amin H. Nasser Ziad T. Al Murshed
Chairman of the Board President & Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer (Acting)
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 177
[TABLE DATA]
– | – | – | 395,203 | – | – | 17,193 | 412,396
– | – | – | – | – | 8,383 | (520) | 7,863
– | – | – | 395,203 | – | 8,383 | 16,673 | 420,259
– | – | – | 9,392 | – | (9,392) | – | –
– | – | – | 270 | – | (270) | – | –
– | – | 436 | 38 | – | (125) | – | 349
– | – | – | (13) | – | 207 | – | 194
– | – | – | (281,305) | – | – | – | (281,305)
– | – | – | – | – | – | 46,547 | 46,547
– | – | – | (415) | – | – | 838 | 423
– | – | – | – | – | – | (6,893) | (6,893)
109,972
2,097
112,069
–
–
94
52
(75,015)
12,412
113
(1,838)
60,000 | 26,981 | (2,828) | 1,018,443 | 6,000 | 4,661 | 167,411 | 1,280,668
[Page 180]
Consolidated statement of cash flows
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
SAR USD*
Year ended December 31 Year ended December 31
Note 2021 2020 2021 2020
Income before income taxes and zakat 769,521 372,424 205,206 99,313
Adjustments to reconcile income before income taxes
and zakat to net cash provided by operating activities
Depreciation and amortization 5,6 85,521 76,208 22,805 20,322
Exploration and evaluation costs written off 6 2,875 3,544 767 945
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 3,971 2,020 1,059 539
Inventory movement 453 4,181 121 1,115
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 7 (7,874) 3,554 (2,100) 948
Finance income 27 (1,405) (2,771) (375) (739)
Finance costs 20 12,058 10,564 3,215 2,817
Dividends from investments in securities 27 (369) (382) (99) (102)
Change in fair value of investments through profit or loss 27 28 7 7
Change in joint ventures and associates inventory profit elimination 7 550 21 147 6
Other 3,243 794 865 211
Change in working capital
Inventories (23,157) 15,890 (6,175) 4,237
Trade receivables (55,190) 22,172 (14,718) 5,913
Due from the Government (12,422) 7,886 (3,313) 2,103
Other assets and receivables (8,565) (2,784) (2,284) (742)
Trade and other payables 35,763 (16,250) 9,537 (4,333)
Royalties payable 5,809 (6,472) 1,549 (1,726)
Other changes
Other assets and receivables 1,263 (8,593) 337 (2,291)
Provisions and other liabilities 680 1,344 181 358
Post-employment benefit obligations 2,667 123 712 33
Settlement of income, zakat and other taxes 8 (292,818) (198,204) (78,084) (52,855)
Net cash provided by operating activities 522,601 285,297 139,360 76,079
Capital expenditures 4 (119,645) (101,030) (31,905) (26,942)
Cash acquired on acquisition of subsidiary 35 – 27,515 – 7,337
Distributions from joint ventures and associates 7 4,651 2,601 1,240 694
Additional investments in joint ventures and associates 7 (557) (537) (149) (143)
Dividends from investments in securities 27 369 382 99 102
Interest received 1,232 3,698 329 987
Net investments in securities (1,519) (599) (406) (160)
Net (purchases) maturities of short-term investments (20,272) 47,071 (5,405) 12,552
Net cash used in investing activities (135,741) (20,899) (36,197) (5,573)
Dividends paid to shareholders of the Company 36 (281,305) (261,184) (75,015) (69,649)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests in subsidiaries (7,112) (718) (1,896) (191)
Proceeds from sale of non-controlling equity interest in a subsidiary 46,547 – 12,412 –
Proceeds from issue of treasury shares 16 384 – 103 –
Proceeds from borrowings 42,213 87,520 11,256 23,339
Repayments of borrowings (73,563) (42,125) (19,617) (11,233)
Principal portion of lease payments (12,143) (10,868) (3,238) (2,898)
Interest paid (9,534) (7,497) (2,542) (2,000)
Net cash used in financing activities (294,513) (234,872) (78,537) (62,632)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 92,347 29,526 24,626 7,874
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 207,232 177,706 55,262 47,388
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 299,579 207,232 79,888 55,262
* Supplementary information is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = SAR 3.75 for convenience only.
H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan Amin H. Nasser Ziad T. Al Murshed
Chairman of the Board President & Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer (Acting)
178 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
769,521
85,521
2,875
3,971
453
(7,874)
(1,405)
12,058
(369)
27
550
3,243
(23,157)
(55,190)
(12,422)
(8,565)
35,763
5,809
1,263
680
2,667
(292,818)
522,601
(119,645)
–
4,651
(557)
369
1,232
(1,519)
(20,272)
(135,741)
(281,305)
(7,112)
46,547
384
42,213
(73,563)
(12,143)
(9,534)
(294,513)
92,347
207,232
299,579
205,206
22,805
767
1,059
121
(2,100)
(375)
3,215
(99)
7
147
865
(6,175)
(14,718)
(3,313)
(2,284)
9,537
1,549
337
181
712
(78,084)
139,360
(31,905)
–
1,240
(149)
99
329
(406)
(5,405)
(36,197)
(75,015)
(1,896)
12,412
103
11,256
(19,617)
(3,238)
(2,542)
(78,537)
24,626
55,262
79,888
[Page 181]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
1. General information
The Saudi Arabian Oil Company (the “Company”), with headquarters located in Dhahran, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (the “Kingdom”),
is engaged in prospecting, exploring, drilling and extracting hydrocarbon substances (“Upstream”) and processing, manufacturing,
refining and marketing these hydrocarbon substances (“Downstream”). The Company was formed on November 13, 1988 by Royal
Decree No. M/8; however, its history dates back to May 29, 1933 when the Saudi Arabian Government (the “Government”) granted
a concession to the Company’s predecessor the right to, among other things, explore the Kingdom for hydrocarbons.
On December 20, 2017, Royal Decree No. M/37 dated 2/4/1439H was issued approving the Hydrocarbons Law which applies to the
Kingdom’s hydrocarbons and hydrocarbon operations. Under the Hydrocarbons Law, all hydrocarbon deposits, hydrocarbons and
hydrocarbon resources are the property of the Kingdom until ownership is transferred at the well head or when extracted. Further,
the Hydrocarbons Law codifies the Government’s sole authority to set the maximum amount of hydrocarbons production by the
Company and the maximum sustainable capacity that the Company must maintain.
All natural resources within the Kingdom, including hydrocarbons, are owned by the Kingdom. Through a concession in 1933,
the Government granted the Company the exclusive right to explore, develop and produce the Kingdom’s hydrocarbon resources,
except in certain areas. As of December 24, 2017, the Company’s original concession agreement was replaced and superseded by
an amended concession agreement (the “Concession Agreement”) which provides the Company the exclusive right to explore, drill,
prospect, appraise, develop, extract, recover, and produce hydrocarbons in the concession area. The Company is also provided the
exclusive right to market and distribute hydrocarbons, petroleum products and liquid petroleum gas (“LPG”) in the Kingdom along
with the non-exclusive right to manufacture, refine, and treat production and to market, sell, transport and export such production.
The initial term of the Concession Agreement is for 40 years which shall be extended by the Government for 20 years unless the
Company does not satisfy certain conditions commensurate with its then current operating practices. In addition, the Concession
Agreement may be amended and extended for an additional 40 years beyond the original 60-year period subject to the Company
and the Government agreeing on the terms of such extension.
Effective January 1, 2018, Council of Minister’s Resolution No. 180, dated 1/4/1439H (December 19, 2017) converted the Company to
a Saudi Joint Stock Company with new Bylaws. The Company’s 1988 Articles were cancelled as of January 1, 2018 pursuant to Royal
Decree No. M/36, dated 2/4/1439H (December 20, 2017). The Company’s share capital has been set at Saudi Riyal (“SAR”) 60,000,
is fully paid and is divided into 200 billion ordinary shares with equal voting rights without par value. The Company’s Commercial
Registration Number is 2052101150.
On December 11, 2019, the Company completed its Initial Public Offering (“IPO”) and its ordinary shares were listed on the Saudi
Stock Exchange (“Tadawul”). In connection with the IPO, the Government, being the sole owner of the Company’s shares at such time,
sold an aggregate of 3.45 billion ordinary shares, or 1.73% of the Company’s share capital. In addition, concurrent with the IPO, the
Company acquired 117.2 million of its ordinary shares from the Government for a cash payment of SAR 3,750, and classified them as
treasury shares (Note 16). These shares are being used by the Company for its employee share plans (Note 17).
On February 13, 2022, the Government transferred 8 billion ordinary shares, or 4% of the Company’s share capital, to the Public
Investment Fund (“PIF”), the sovereign wealth fund of the Kingdom. Following the transfer, the Government remains the Company’s
largest shareholder, retaining a 94.19% direct shareholding.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries (together “Saudi Aramco”) were approved by the Board
of Directors on March 18, 2022.
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. The
consolidated financial statements provide comparative information in respect of the previous period.
(a) Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”),
that are endorsed in the Kingdom, and other standards and pronouncements issued by the Saudi Organization for Chartered and
Professional Accountants (“SOCPA”). The consolidated financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”). Amounts and balances relating to Shari’a compliant financial instruments of the
Company, its subsidiaries and investments are disclosed separately. All other relevant amounts and balances relate to conventional
financial instruments.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except for certain items measured at
fair value which are, primarily, investments in securities, derivatives and certain trade receivables. The accounting policies that follow
have been consistently applied to all years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 179
[Page 182]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
In response to novel Coronavirus (“COVID-19”), which has caused global economic disruption, Saudi Aramco has implemented
active prevention programs at its sites and contingency plans in order to minimize the risks related to COVID-19 and to safeguard
the continuity of business operations. The global economy experienced a strong recovery in 2021, reflecting increased mobility
and the resumption of business activities through phasing out of the COVID-19 pandemic containment measures. The outlook for
global energy demand remains robust which resulted in a steady increase in crude oil prices. Given that crude oil sales account for
a substantial portion of the Company’s revenue, the increased prices have positively impacted Saudi Aramco’s financial performance
during the current period. Saudi Aramco continues to maintain a disciplined approach to capital spending and is closely monitoring
the current situation, including the impact on both results of operations and cash flows.
(b) Significant accounting judgments and estimates
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to exercise judgment in
applying Saudi Aramco’s accounting policies and in the use of certain critical accounting estimates and assumptions concerning the
future. Management has made various judgments that may significantly impact the valuation and presentation of assets and liabilities.
In addition, management also applies judgment when undertaking the estimation procedures necessary to calculate assets, liabilities,
revenue and expenses. Accounting estimates, by definition, may not equal the related actual results and are subject to change based on
experience and new information. The areas requiring the most significant judgments, estimates and assumptions in the preparation of
the consolidated financial statements are: accounting for interests in subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates, fair values of assets
acquired and liabilities assumed on acquisition, recoverability of asset carrying amounts, determining the lease term, taxation, provisions,
post-retirement obligations and determination of functional currency and are set out in the individual accounting policies below.
(c) New or amended standards
(i) Saudi Aramco adopted the following IASB pronouncement, as endorsed in the Kingdom, effective for annual periods beginning
on or after January 1, 2021:
Interbank Offered Rate (“IBOR”) reform
IBOR reform represents the reform and replacement of interest rate benchmarks such as the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) by
global regulators. On March 5, 2021, the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority announced the future cessation and loss of representativeness
of the LIBOR benchmarks. Saudi Aramco has a number of contracts, primarily referenced to USD LIBOR, of which most applicable tenors
will cease to be published on June 30, 2023.
In this regard, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, IFRS 4, Insurance
Contracts, IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, and IFRS 16, Leases, as part of phase 2 of a two-
phase project for IBOR reform, which address issues that arise from the implementation of the reform. These amendments, issued
on August 27, 2020 and effective January 1, 2021, include: (1) providing practical expedients in relation to accounting for instruments
to which the amortized cost measurement applies by updating the effective interest rate to account for a change in the basis for
determining the contractual cash flows without adjusting the carrying amount; (2) additional temporary exceptions from applying
specific hedge accounting requirements, including permitted changes to hedge designation without the hedging relationship being
discontinued when Phase 1 reliefs cease; and (3) additional disclosures related to IBOR reform, including managing the transition to
alternative benchmark rates, its progress and the risks arising from the transition, quantitative information about financial instruments
that have yet to transition to new benchmarks and changes in the entity’s risk management strategy where this arises.
Saudi Aramco has established an IBOR Transition Project, the scope of which includes analyzing the exposure to IBOR benchmarks,
evaluating the impact of the transition and providing support and guidance to all impacted internal stakeholders. As per the initial
transition plan, all contracts and agreements that reference USD LIBOR and expire after the cessation dates, will be renegotiated
with counterparties to reflect the alternative benchmark.
The following table contains details of all financial instruments of Saudi Aramco referencing USD LIBOR, recognized at December 31,
2021, which expire after the cessation dates, and which have not yet transitioned to an alternative benchmark:
Financial instruments yet to
transition to alternative
benchmarks:
As at December 31, 2021 USD LIBOR
Non-derivative financial assets 10,973
Non-derivative financial liabilities 42,184
Derivative financial liabilities1 394
1. Amount represents hedging instruments with a nominal value of SAR 9,514.
180 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
10,973
42,184
394
[Page 183]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
(ii) The following IASB pronouncement that is endorsed in the Kingdom will become effective for annual periods beginning on or
after January 1, 2022 has not been early adopted by Saudi Aramco.
Amendment to IAS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment
In May 2020, the IASB issued an amendment to IAS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment, which prohibits an entity from deducting from
the cost of an item of property, plant and equipment any proceeds from selling items produced while the entity is preparing the asset
for its intended use. Instead, an entity needs to recognize the proceeds from selling such items, and the costs of producing those items,
in profit or loss. The amendment is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2022. The adoption of this
amendment is not expected to have any material impact on Saudi Aramco’s consolidated financial statements.
There are no other standards, amendments and interpretations that are not yet effective that are expected to have a material impact
in the current or future reporting periods or on foreseeable future transactions.
(d) Principles of consolidation, acquisition and equity accounting
(i) Subsidiaries
The consolidated financial statements reflect the assets, liabilities and operations of the Company and its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are
entities over which the Company has control. The Company controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from
its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are consolidated
from the date on which the Company obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealized profits and losses arising from intragroup transactions, have been
eliminated. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to align the accounting policies with
those used by the Company.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for business combinations, including those acquisitions of businesses under
common control that have commercial substance. Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred. The consideration transferred for
the acquisition of a subsidiary comprises the fair value of the assets transferred, liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquired
business, equity interests issued by Saudi Aramco, the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration
arrangement and the fair value of any pre-existing equity interest in the subsidiary. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and
contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at fair value at the date the assets and liabilities are
exchanged, irrespective of the extent of any non-controlling interests. The excess of the consideration transferred and the amount
of any non-controlling interest in the acquired entity over the fair value of the acquired identifiable net assets is recorded as goodwill.
Where settlement of any part of the cash consideration is deferred, the amounts payable in the future are discounted to their present
value as at the date of exchange. The discount rate used is the entity’s incremental borrowing rate, being the rate at which a similar
borrowing could be obtained under comparable terms and conditions. At the acquisition date, any goodwill arising is allocated to
each of the cash-generating units, or groups of cash-generating units, expected to benefit from the business combination’s synergies.
Non-controlling interests represent the equity in subsidiaries that is not attributable, directly or indirectly, to Saudi Aramco.
Saudi Aramco recognizes any non-controlling interest in the acquired entity on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis either at fair
value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquired entity’s net identifiable assets. Non-controlling interests
in the results and equity of subsidiaries are shown separately in the Consolidated Statements of Income, the Consolidated Statement
of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, and the Consolidated Balance Sheet, respectively.
Saudi Aramco treats transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in a loss of control as transactions with equity
owners of the group. A change in ownership interest results in an adjustment between the carrying amounts of the controlling and
non-controlling interests to reflect their relative interests in the subsidiary. Any difference between the amount of the adjustment
to non-controlling interests and any consideration paid or received is recognized in equity.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date carrying value of the previously held equity interest is
remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date with any gains or losses arising from such remeasurement recognized in net income.
(ii) Joint arrangements
Under IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements, an arrangement in which two or more parties have joint control is a joint arrangement. Joint
control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities
require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. Investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations
or joint ventures. The classification depends on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor, rather than the legal structure
of the joint arrangement. Saudi Aramco has both joint operations and joint ventures.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 181
[Page 184]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
1) Joint operations
Joint operations arise where the investors have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities of a joint arrangement. In relation
to its interests in joint operations, Saudi Aramco recognizes its:
• Assets, including its share of any assets held jointly;
• Liabilities, including its share of any liabilities incurred jointly;
• Revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from the joint operation; and
• Expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly.
2) Joint ventures
A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net
assets of the joint arrangement. Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially
recognized at cost.
Saudi Aramco’s share of results of its joint ventures is recognized within net income, while its share of post-acquisition movements in
other comprehensive income is recognized within other comprehensive income. The cumulative effect of these changes is adjusted
against the carrying amount of Saudi Aramco’s investments in joint ventures, which is presented separately in the Consolidated
Balance Sheet. When Saudi Aramco’s share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the joint venture, including any
other unsecured non-current receivables, Saudi Aramco does not recognize further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made
payments on behalf of the joint venture.
Gains and losses on transactions between Saudi Aramco and joint ventures not realized through a sale to a third party are eliminated
to the extent of Saudi Aramco’s interest in the joint ventures. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of
joint ventures to align their accounting policies with those used by Saudi Aramco.
Saudi Aramco’s investments in joint ventures includes, when applicable, goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated
impairment loss. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of Saudi Aramco’s share of the net
identifiable assets of the acquired joint venture at the date of acquisition. Dilution gains and losses arising from investments in joint
ventures are recognized in net income.
Dividends received or receivable from joint ventures are recognized as a reduction in the carrying amount of the investment.
(iii) Associates
Associates are entities over which Saudi Aramco has significant influence. Significant influence is the power to participate in financial
and operating policy decisions but with no control or joint control over those policies and is generally reflected by a shareholding of
between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and
are initially recognized at cost. The accounting policies for joint ventures detailed in Note 2(d)(ii)(2) above are also applied by Saudi
Aramco to its associates.
Significant accounting judgments and estimates
The acquisition of subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates require management to estimate the fair values of the assets
acquired and liabilities assumed. In addition, judgments are applied in the determination of whether control, joint control or significant
influence is present with respect to investments in subsidiaries, joint arrangements or associates. For control, judgment is applied when
determining if an entity is controlled by voting rights, potential voting rights or other rights granted through contractual arrangements
and includes considering an entity’s purpose and design. For joint control, judgment is applied when assessing whether the
arrangement is jointly controlled by all of its parties or by a group of the parties by taking decisions about relevant activities through
unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. For joint control, judgment is also applied as to whether the joint arrangement is
classified as a joint venture or joint operation taking into account specific facts and circumstances, such as the purpose and design of
the arrangement, including with respect to its output, its relationship to the parties and its source of cash flows. For significant
influence, judgment is applied in its determination by assessing factors such as representation on the board of directors, participation
in policy-making processes, material transactions with the entity, interchange of managerial personnel and provision of essential
technical information. Refer to Notes 7, 35, 38, and 39.
(e) Intangible assets
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill is not amortized but it is tested for impairment
annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired. Goodwill is carried at cost less
accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units or groups of
cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the acquisition in which the goodwill arose. The units or groups of units are
identified at the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
182 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 185]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
Intangible assets other than exploration and evaluation costs (Note 2(f)) and those with indefinite useful lives such as goodwill and
brand acquired on acquisition of Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (“SABIC”) (Note 35), consist primarily of brands and trademarks,
franchise/customer relationships and computer software. If acquired in a business combination, these intangible assets are recognized
at their fair value at the date of acquisition and, if acquired separately, these intangible assets are recognized at cost. All these
intangible assets are subsequently amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
The following table sets forth estimated useful lives, in years, of the principal groups of these intangible assets:
Brands and trademarks 10 to 22
Franchise/customer relationships 5 to 25
Computer software 3 to 15
Amortization is recorded in depreciation and amortization in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
(f) Exploration and evaluation
Exploration and evaluation costs are recorded under the successful efforts method. Under the successful efforts method, geological
and geophysical costs are recognized as an expense when incurred and exploration costs associated with exploratory wells are initially
capitalized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as an intangible asset until the drilling of the well is complete and the results have been
evaluated. If potential commercial quantities of hydrocarbons are found, these costs continue to be capitalized subject to further
appraisal activities that would determine the commercial viability and technical feasibility of the reserves. If potentially commercial
quantities of hydrocarbons have not been found, and no alternative use of the well is determined, the previously capitalized costs
are written off to exploration in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Exploratory wells remain capitalized while additional appraisal drilling on the potential oil and/or gas field is performed or while
optimum development plans are established. All such capitalized costs are not subject to amortization, but at each reporting date
are subject to regular technical and management review to confirm the continued intent to develop, or otherwise extract value
from the well. Where such intent no longer exists, the costs are written off to exploration in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Capitalized exploratory expenditures are, at each reporting date, subject to review for impairment indicators.
When proved reserves of hydrocarbons are determined and there is a firm plan for development approved by management, the
relevant capitalized costs are transferred to property, plant and equipment.
(g) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment
losses, if any. Cost includes expenditures directly attributable to the construction and/or acquisition of the asset (Note 2(r)). Land and
construction-in-progress are not depreciated. When a construction-in-progress asset is deemed available for use as intended by
management, depreciation commences.
Subsequent expenditures including major renovations are included in an asset’s carrying amount, or recognized as a separate asset
only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to Saudi Aramco and the cost of the item can
be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced item is derecognized. All other repair and maintenance expenditures are
expensed as incurred. The present value of the expected cost for the decommissioning of an asset after its use is included in the cost
of the respective asset if the recognition criteria for a provision are met (Note 2(u)).
Where the life of expected hydrocarbon reserves substantially exceeds the economic or technical lives of the underlying assets,
the straight-line method of depreciation is used. The unit of production method is used for fields where the expected reserve life
is approximately equal to or less than the estimated useful lives of the underlying assets. Depletion rates are calculated on the basis
of a group of wells or fields with similar characteristics based on proved developed reserves. The estimation of expected reserve
lives reflects management’s assessment of proved developed reserves and the related depletion strategy on a field-by-field basis.
Depreciation expense on all other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost less residual values over
the estimated useful lives. Depreciation expense is recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Depreciation expense is calculated after determining an estimate of an asset’s expected useful life and the expected residual value
at the end of its useful life. The useful lives and residual values are determined by management at the time the asset is initially
recognized and are reviewed annually for appropriateness or when events or conditions occur that impact capitalized costs,
hydrocarbon reserves or estimated useful lives.
As of January 1, 2021, Saudi Aramco changed the presentation of the groups of assets under property, plant and equipment. The new
presentation is consistent with the generally accepted practice of presenting assets based on their nature as compared to the business
function where they are used in the company’s operations. This change has no current or future impact on the total reported carrying
values, estimated useful lives or depreciation expense.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 183
[Page 186]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
The estimated useful lives or, the lease term, if shorter, for right of use assets (Note 2(i)) in years of principal groups of depreciable
assets based on the revised presentation is as follows:
Land and land improvements 3 to 30
Buildings 5 to 50
Oil and gas properties 15 to 30
Plant, machinery and equipment 2 to 50
Depots, storage tanks and pipelines 4 to 30
Fixtures, IT and office equipment 2 to 20
The estimated useful lives or, the lease term, if shorter, for right-of-use assets (Note 2(i)), in years of the principal groups of depreciable
assets for the previous presentation is set forth below:
Crude oil facilities:
Pipelines and storage tanks 12 to 23
Drilling and construction equipment 5 to 25
Oil and gas properties 15 to 30
Marine equipment 13 to 30
Refinery and petrochemical facilities 2 to 50
Gas and Natural Gas Liquids (“NGL”) facilities 2 to 30
General service plant:
Permanent buildings 20 to 40
Roads and walkways 10 to 20
Aircraft 8 to 17
Autos and trucks 3 to 20
Office furniture and equipment 6 to 8
Computer equipment 3 to 5
Right of use assets are depreciated over the life of the asset or the lease term, if shorter (Note 2(i)).
Gains and losses on disposals of depreciable assets are recognized in net income.
(h) Impairment of non-financial assets
Saudi Aramco assesses, at each reporting date, whether there is an indication that a non-financial asset may be impaired except that
assets with indefinite useful lives such as goodwill and brand acquired on acquisition of SABIC (Note 35) are reviewed for impairment
on an annual basis. If an indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the asset’s recoverable amount
is estimated. An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal or value in use (“VIU”). The fair value less costs of
disposal calculation is based on either, post-tax discounted cash flow models or available data from binding arm’s length sales
transactions for similar assets, or observable market prices less incremental costs for disposing of the asset. The VIU calculation is
based on a post-tax risk adjusted discounted cash flow model. The use of post-tax discount rates in determining VIU does not result
in a materially different determination of the need for, or the amount of, impairment that would be required if pre-tax discount rates
had been used.
Impairment losses are recognized as a component of net income. If, in a subsequent period, the amount of a non-goodwill impairment
loss decreases, a reversal of the previously recognized impairment loss is recognized in net income.
Significant accounting judgments and estimates
Impairment tests are undertaken on the basis of the smallest identifiable group of assets (cash-generating unit), or individual assets,
for which there are largely independent cash inflows. The key assumptions used to determine the different cash-generating units
involves significant judgment from management.
184 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 187]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
For the purposes of determining whether impairment of items of property, plant and equipment has occurred, and the extent of
any impairment or its reversal, the key assumptions management uses in estimating future cash flows for its VIU calculations are
forecasted future oil, gas, refined product and chemical prices, expected production volumes, future operating and development
costs, refining and petrochemical margins and changes to the discount rate used for the discounted cash flow model. There is an
inherent uncertainty over forecasted information and assumptions. Changes in these assumptions and forecasts could impact the
recoverable amounts of assets and any calculated impairment and reversals thereof.
(i) Leases
Saudi Aramco’s portfolio of leased assets mainly comprises land and buildings, drilling rigs, marine vessels, industrial facilities,
equipment, storage and tanks, aircraft and vehicles. The determination of whether the contract is, or contains, a lease is based
on the substance of the contract at the inception of the lease. A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right
to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Saudi Aramco recognizes right-of-use assets and lease liabilities at the lease commencement date. Right-of-use assets are initially
measured at cost, which comprises lease liabilities at initial measurement, any initial direct costs incurred, any lease payments made
at or before the commencement date, and restoration costs less any lease incentives received. Subsequent to initial recognition the
right-of-use assets are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any, and adjusted for
any remeasurement of the lease liability. Right-of-use assets are depreciated over the shorter of the asset's useful life and the lease
term on a straight-line basis unless the lease transfers ownership of the underlying asset by the end of the lease term or if the cost
of the asset reflects the exercise of the purchase option, in which case right of use assets are depreciated over the useful life of the
underlying asset. Depreciation expense is recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Right-of-use assets are included under
property, plant and equipment (Note 5).
Lease liabilities are initially measured at the present value of lease payments. Lease payments include fixed lease payments, variable
lease payments that depend on an index or rate, amounts payable for guaranteed residual values and payments to be made under
extension or purchase or termination options, where applicable. The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in
the lease. If that rate cannot be readily determined, which is generally the case, the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate is used, being
the rate that the individual lessee would have to pay to borrow the funds necessary to obtain an asset of similar value to the right-of-
use asset in a similar economic environment with similar terms, security and conditions. Subsequent to initial recognition, the lease
liabilities are measured by increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest on the lease liability, reducing the carrying amount to
reflect the lease payments made and adjusted for remeasurement to reflect any reassessments or lease modifications. Lease liabilities
are included under borrowings (Note 20). Lease payments are allocated between the principal and finance costs. Finance costs are
recorded as an expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of
interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Saudi Aramco has elected not to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term and low-value leases. Lease payments
under short-term and low-value leases are recorded as an expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income on a straight-line basis
over the lease term.
Significant accounting judgments and estimates
In determining the lease term, management considers all facts and circumstances that create an economic incentive to exercise
an extension option, or not exercise a termination option. Extension options are only included in the lease term if the lease is
reasonably certain to not be terminated or to be extended. The assessment is reviewed if a significant event or a significant
change in circumstances occurs which affects this assessment and is within the control of the lessee.
(j) Investments and other financial assets
(i) Classification
Management determines the classification of its financial assets based on the business model for managing the financial assets and
the contractual terms of the cash flows. Saudi Aramco’s financial assets are classified in the following measurement categories:
• those to be measured subsequently at fair value (either through other comprehensive income or through profit or loss); and
• those to be measured at amortized cost.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 185
[Page 188]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
For financial assets measured at fair value, gains and losses are recorded either in net income or other comprehensive income.
For investments in debt securities, this depends on the business model in which the investment is held. For investments in equity
instruments that are not held for trading, this depends on whether Saudi Aramco has made an irrevocable election at the time of
initial recognition, due to the strategic nature of these investments, to account for such equity investments at fair value through other
comprehensive income. Saudi Aramco reclassifies debt securities, when and only when, its business model for managing those assets
changes. Certain revenue contracts provide for provisional pricing at the time of shipment with the final pricing based on an average
market price for a particular future period. Such trade receivables are measured at fair value because the contractual cash flows are not
solely payments of principal and interest. All other trade receivables meet the criteria for amortized cost measurement under IFRS 9.
(ii) Recognition and derecognition
Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognized on the trade-date, which is the date on which Saudi Aramco commits
to purchase or sell the asset. Financial assets are derecognized when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets have
expired or have been transferred and Saudi Aramco has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
(iii) Measurement
At initial recognition, Saudi Aramco measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value
through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset. Transaction costs of
financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are expensed as a component of net income. Saudi Aramco subsequently
measures all equity investments at fair value.
Equity investments:
Where Saudi Aramco has elected to present fair value gains and losses on equity investments in other comprehensive income, there
is no subsequent reclassification of fair value gains and losses to net income following the derecognition of the investment. Dividends
from such investments continue to be recognized as a component of net income when Saudi Aramco’s right to receive payments is
established. Changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are recognized as a component of net
income.
Debt securities:
Subsequent measurement of debt securities depends on Saudi Aramco’s business model for managing the asset and the cash flow
characteristics of the asset. Debt securities are classified into the following three measurement categories:
1. Amortized cost:
Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest
are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. A gain or loss on a debt investment that is subsequently measured
at amortized cost and is not part of a hedging relationship is recognized as a component of net income when the asset is derecognized
or impaired. Interest income from these financial assets is included in finance income using the effective interest method.
2. Fair value through other comprehensive income (“FVOCI”):
Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and for selling the financial assets, where the assets’ cash flows represent
solely payments of principal and interest, are measured at FVOCI. Movements in the carrying amount are taken through other
comprehensive income, except for impairment gains or losses, interest income and foreign exchange gains and losses which are
recognized as a component of net income. When the financial asset is derecognized, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognized
in other comprehensive income is reclassified from equity to net income. Interest income from these financial assets is included in
finance income using the effective interest method.
3. Fair value through profit or loss (“FVPL”):
Assets that do not meet the criteria for amortized cost or FVOCI are measured at FVPL. A gain or loss on a debt investment that is
subsequently measured at FVPL and is not part of a hedging relationship is recognized as a component of net income in the period
in which it arises. Financial assets at FVPL are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the asset within
12 months from the end of the reporting period, in which case the asset is included in current assets.
186 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 189]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
Other financial assets:
Other financial assets are classified into the following categories:
1. Amortized cost:
Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest
are measured at amortized cost. A gain or loss on a financial asset that is subsequently measured at amortized cost and is not part of
a hedging relationship is recognized as a component of net income when the asset is derecognized or impaired. Interest income from
these financial assets is included in finance income using the effective interest rate.
Financial assets at amortized cost comprise cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, other assets and receivables, due from
the Government and trade receivables other than those subsequently measured at FVPL.
2. Fair value through profit or loss:
Trade receivables related to contracts with provisional pricing arrangements are subsequently measured at FVPL.
(iv) Impairment
Saudi Aramco assesses on a forward-looking basis, the expected credit losses associated with debt securities carried at either amortized
cost or FVOCI. The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk.
For trade receivables, Saudi Aramco applies the simplified approach permitted by IFRS 9, which requires expected lifetime losses to
be recognized from initial recognition of the receivables.
(k) Derivative instruments and hedging activities
Saudi Aramco’s use of derivative instruments does not have a material effect on its financial position or results of operations.
(i) Derivative instruments classified as held for trading
Saudi Aramco uses commodity swap derivative financial instruments to manage exposure to price fluctuations which arise on
purchase and sale transactions for physical deliveries of crude, natural gas liquids and various refined and bulk petrochemical
products. The swaps are initially recognized, and subsequently remeasured at fair value and recorded as an asset, when the fair value
is positive, or as a liability, when the fair value is negative, under trade receivables or trade and other payables in the Consolidated
Balance Sheet, respectively.
The fair value of the swap is determined in accordance with Saudi Aramco’s derivative valuation policy by reference to the traded price
of that instrument on the relevant exchange or over-the-counter markets at the Consolidated Balance Sheet date. The gain or loss from
the changes in the fair value of the swap from its value at inception is recognized in net income.
(ii) Derivative instruments designated as hedges
Saudi Aramco uses interest rate swaps and currency forward contracts to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and
foreign exchange rates. These derivative financial instruments, designated as either fair value or cash flow hedges, are purchased
from counterparties of high credit standing and are initially recognized, and subsequently remeasured, at fair value.
At the inception of the hedging transaction, Saudi Aramco documents the economic relationship between the hedging instrument
and the hedged item, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking the hedge transaction.
The fair value of a derivative financial instrument used for hedging purposes is classified as a current asset or liability when the
remaining maturity of the derivative is less than 12 months; otherwise, it is classified as a non-current asset or liability.
1) Fair value hedges
A fair value hedge is a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or firm commitment. Saudi Aramco designates certain
currency forward contracts as fair value hedges. The gain or loss from the changes in the fair value of the currency forward contracts
is recognized in net income, together with changes in the fair value of the hedged item.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 187
[Page 190]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
2) Cash flow hedges
A cash flow hedge is a hedge of a particular risk associated with all or a component of a recognized asset or liability or a highly
probable forecast transaction, and could affect profit or loss. Any gain or loss relating to the effective portion of changes in the
fair value of interest rate swap contracts is recognized in other comprehensive income, with the ineffective portion recognized
immediately in net income.
Gains and losses deferred through other comprehensive income are reclassified to net income at the time the hedged item affects net
income. However, when a hedged item is a forecast transaction resulting in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial
liability, the gains and losses deferred through other comprehensive income, if any, are included in the initial cost or other carrying
amount of the asset or liability. When a hedging instrument expires, any cumulative gain or loss deferred through other comprehensive
income will remain until the forecast transaction is recognized. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the
cumulative gain or loss deferred through other comprehensive income is immediately reclassified to net income.
(l) Income tax and zakat
Income tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred income tax expense. Income tax expense is recognized in net
income, except to the extent that it relates to items recognized in other comprehensive income. In this case, the related income tax
is also recognized in other comprehensive income.
Current income tax expense is calculated primarily on the basis of the Tax Law. In addition, income tax expense results from taxable
income generated by foreign affiliates.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method at tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the
reporting period and expected to apply when the related deferred income tax is realized or settled on temporary differences arising
between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. In estimating such
tax consequences, consideration is given to expected future events. Deferred income tax is not provided on initial recognition of an
asset or liability in a transaction, other than a business combination that, at the time of the transaction, does not affect either the
accounting profit or the taxable profit.
Deferred income tax assets are recognized where future recovery is probable. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset
when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current income tax assets against current income tax liabilities and when the
deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. Deferred income tax is not provided for taxes on possible future distributions
of retained earnings of subsidiaries where the timing of the distribution can be controlled and it is probable that the retained earnings
will be substantially reinvested by the entities.
Zakat is levied at the higher of adjusted income subject to zakat or the zakat base in accordance with the Regulations of the Zakat,
Tax and Customs Authority (“ZATCA”) in the Kingdom. Zakat is computed using the zakat base. The zakat provision is charged to the
Consolidated Statement of Income.
Significant accounting judgments and estimates
Saudi Aramco establishes provisions, based on reasonable estimates, for potential claims by the tax authorities of the respective
countries in which it operates. The amount of such provisions is based on various factors, such as different interpretations of tax
regulations by the taxable entity and the responsible tax authority and the outcome of previous negotiations. This requires the
application of judgment as to the ultimate outcome, which can change over time depending on facts and circumstances. A change in
estimate of the likelihood of a future outflow and/or in the expected amount to be settled would be recognized in net income in the
period in which the change occurs. Deferred income tax assets are recognized only to the extent it is considered probable that those
assets are recoverable. This includes an assessment of when those assets are likely to reverse, and a judgment as to whether or not
there will be sufficient taxable income available to offset the assets when they do reverse. This requires assumptions regarding future
profitability. To the extent assumptions regarding future profitability change, there can be an increase or decrease in the amounts
recognized in respect of deferred income tax assets as well as in the amounts recognized in net income in the period in which the
change occurs.
Detailed taxation information, including current expense and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, is presented in Note 8.
(m) Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value. Cost comprises all expenses to bring inventories to their
present location and condition and, for hydrocarbon and chemical inventories, is determined using the first-in, first-out (“FIFO”)
method. For materials and supplies inventories, cost is determined using the weighted average method, less an allowance for disposal
of obsolete and/or surplus materials and supplies. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business,
less applicable variable selling expenses.
188 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 191]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
(n) Due from the Government
The Government compensates the Company through price equalization (Note 2(y)) and for past due trade receivables of specified
Government, semi-Government and other entities with Government ownership or control to whom the Company supplies specified
products and services.
Revenue on sales to these specified Government, semi-Government and other entities with Government ownership or control is
recognized upon the satisfaction of performance obligations, which occurs when control transfers to these customers. Control of the
products is determined to be transferred when the title of products passes, which typically takes place when product is physically
transferred to these customers. Once receivables from these customers are past due, these trade receivables are reclassified as a due
from the Government current receivable. In cases where any of these customers settle past due amounts, the Government guarantee
receivable is credited with the amounts received. The balance is presented within due from the Government even if it is payable to the
Government based on the Company’s expectation to settle the balance on a net basis with other amounts due from the Government.
Implementing regulations issued by the Government allow the Company to offset any amounts due from the Government against payment
of taxes, and in the event of insufficiency of tax balances, offset against any other amounts due and payable by the Company to the
Government. Balances due from the Government at December 31 represent amounts to be settled through offset against tax payments.
(o) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and in banks together with all highly liquid investments purchased with original
maturities of three months or less.
(p) Treasury shares
Treasury shares are recognized as a deduction from equity at the amount of consideration paid by the Company for their acquisition,
including any directly attributable transaction costs incurred.
(q) Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are classified at initial recognition as financial liabilities at FVPL or as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost,
as appropriate.
Saudi Aramco’s financial liabilities are:
(i) Financial liabilities at FVPL
Derivative financial liabilities are categorized as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges (Note 2(k)). Derivative financial
liabilities held for trading are included in current liabilities under trade and other payables with gains or losses recognized in net income.
(ii) Financial liabilities at amortized cost
Financial liabilities other than financial liabilities at FVPL are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost and are
recorded net of transaction costs. Such financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized
cost using the effective interest method. Discounting is omitted when the effect is immaterial. Financial liabilities measured at amortized
cost are included in current liabilities, except for those with maturities greater than 12 months after the end of the reporting period,
which are classified as non-current liabilities.
Financial liabilities at amortized cost include trade and other payables and borrowings. Financial liabilities are disclosed separately
from financial assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheet unless there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognized amounts,
and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
(r) Borrowing costs
Any difference between borrowing proceeds and the redemption value is recognized as finance costs in the Consolidated Statement
of Income over the term of the borrowing using the effective interest method.
Borrowing costs are expensed as incurred except for those costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a
qualifying asset which are capitalized as part of the cost of that asset until the asset is complete for its intended use or sale. Qualifying
assets are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for intended use or sale.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 189
[Page 192]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
(s) Post-employment benefit plans
(i) Pension plans
Funded pension plans are non-contributory plans for the majority of employees and are generally funded by payments by Saudi
Aramco and where applicable by group companies to independent trusts or other separate entities. Assets held by the independent
trusts and other separate entities are held at their fair value. Valuations of both funded and unfunded plans are performed annually
by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The valuations take into account employees’ years of service,
average or final pensionable remuneration, and are discounted to their present value using interest rates of high-quality corporate
bonds that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related defined benefit obligation.
The amount recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the
defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The periodic pension cost included in
operating costs in the Consolidated Statement of Income in respect of defined benefit pension plans primarily represents the increase
in the actuarially assessed present value of the obligation for pension benefits based on employee service during the year and the net
interest on the net defined benefit liability or asset. Net interest is calculated by multiplying the defined benefit liability and plan
assets by the discount rate applied to each plan at the beginning of each year, amended for changes to the defined benefit liability
and plan assets as a result of benefit payments or contributions.
Past service costs, representing plan amendments, are recognized immediately as pension costs in the Consolidated Statement of
Income, regardless of the remaining vesting period.
Remeasurements representing actuarial gains and losses, arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions,
and the actual returns on plan assets excluding interest on plan assets, are credited or charged to equity, net of tax, through other
comprehensive income.
For defined contribution plans where benefits depend solely on the amount contributed to or due to the employee’s account and the
returns earned from the investment of those contributions, plan cost is the amount contributed by or due from Saudi Aramco and is
recognized as an expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
(ii) Other post-employment benefits
Saudi Aramco provides certain post-employment healthcare, life insurance and other benefits to retirees and certain former
employees. The entitlement is usually based on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a
minimum service period. To the extent these plans are not fully funded, a liability is recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Valuations of benefits are performed by independent actuaries.
Such plans follow the same accounting methodology as used for defined benefit pension plans.
Significant accounting judgments and estimates
The costs of defined benefit pension plans and post-employment medical benefits are determined using actuarial valuations. The
actuarial valuation involves making assumptions, which are reviewed annually. Key assumptions include discount rates, future salary
increases, future healthcare costs, mortality rates and future pension increases. Due to the complexity of the valuation, the underlying
assumptions and the long-term nature of these plans, such estimates are subject to significant uncertainty. Information about amounts
reported in respect of defined benefit plans, assumptions applicable to the plans and their sensitivity to changes are presented in Note 21.
(t) Share-based compensation
The cost of an equity-settled award granted to employees is measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instrument on the
date the award is granted. This cost is recognized as an employee benefit expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income with a
corresponding increase in equity.
The cost of a cash-settled award granted to employees is measured by reference to the fair value of the liability at each Consolidated
Balance Sheet date until settlement. This cost is recognized as an employee benefit expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income
with the corresponding recognition of a liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The cost of both the equity-settled and cash-settled awards is recognized over the vesting period, which is the period over which the
employees render the required service for the award and any non-market performance condition attached to the award is required to
be met. Additionally, for a cash-settled award, any changes in the fair value of the liability between the vesting date and the date of its
settlement are also recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income within employee benefit expense.
190 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 193]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
In determining the fair value of an equity-settled or cash-settled award, an appropriate valuation method is applied. Service and
non-market performance conditions are not taken into account in determining the fair value of the award, but during the vesting
period the likelihood of the conditions being met is assessed as part of the Company’s best estimate of the number of awards that are
expected to vest. Any market performance conditions and non-vesting conditions are taken into account in determining the award’s
fair value.
(u) Provisions and contingencies
Provisions are liabilities where the timing or amount of future expenditures is uncertain. Provisions are recognized when Saudi Aramco
has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of economic resources will be
required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are recorded at the best estimate of the present value of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the end of
the reporting period. Amounts are discounted, unless the effect of discounting is immaterial, using an appropriate discount rate
that reflects the current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the
provision due to the passage of time is recognized as interest expense within finance costs in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Saudi Aramco records a provision and a corresponding asset for decommissioning activities in Upstream operations for well plugging
and abandonment. The decommissioning obligation for a well is recognized when it is drilled. Decommissioning provisions associated
with Downstream facilities are generally not recognized, as the potential obligations cannot be measured, given their indeterminate
settlement dates. The decommissioning obligations will be recognized in the period when sufficient information becomes available
to estimate a range of potential settlement dates. Decommissioning costs are provided for at the present value of expected costs to
settle the obligation using estimated cash flows. The value of the obligation is added to the carrying amount of the related asset and
amortized over the useful life of the asset. The increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognized as finance costs in the
Consolidated Statement of Income. Changes in future cash flow estimates resulting from revisions to the estimated timing or amount
of undiscounted cash flows are recognized as a change in provision and related asset.
A contingent liability is disclosed where the existence of a possible obligation will only be confirmed by future events or where the
amount of a present obligation cannot be measured with reasonable reliability or it is not probable that there will be an outflow of
resources to settle that obligation. Contingent assets are not recognized, but are disclosed where the inflow of economic benefits is
probable.
Significant accounting judgments and estimates
Most of Saudi Aramco’s well plugging and abandonment activities are many years into the future with technology and costs constantly
changing. Estimates of the amounts of a provision are recognized based on current legal and constructive requirements and costs
associated to abandon using existing technologies. Actual costs are uncertain and estimates can vary as a result of changes in the scope
of the project and/or relevant laws and regulation. The estimated timing of decommissioning may change due to certain factors, such
as reserve life, a decision to terminate operations, or changes in legislation. Changes to estimates related to future expected costs,
discount rates and timing may have a material impact on the amounts presented. As a result, significant judgment is applied in the
initial recognition and subsequent adjustment of the provision and the capitalized cost associated with decommissioning, plugging and
abandonment obligations. Any subsequent adjustments to the provision are made prospectively. Detail on the particular assumptions
applied when making certain non-current provisions is included in Note 22.
(v) Foreign currency translation
The USD is the functional currency of the Company. Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using
the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Any foreign currency monetary assets or liabilities are translated at each
reporting date using the prevailing reporting date exchange rate. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of
such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognized as a
component of net income. Non-monetary assets and liabilities, other than those measured at fair value, are translated using the
exchange rate at the date of the transactions.
Significant accounting judgments and estimates
The Company has determined that USD is the functional currency as a substantial amount of its products are traded in USD in
international markets. However, a substantial amount of costs of the Company are denominated in SAR which has been exchanged
at a fixed rate to USD since 1986. A change in the fixed exchange rate could impact the recorded revenue, expenses, assets and
liabilities of the Company.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 191
[Page 194]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
(w) Presentation currency
The consolidated financial statements are presented in SAR. The financial position and results of the operations of the Company,
subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates that have a functional currency which is different from the presentation currency are
translated at reporting date exchange rates and the average exchange rates that approximate the cumulative effect of rates prevailing at
the transaction dates, respectively. All resulting exchange differences are recognized through other comprehensive income. On disposal
of a foreign operation, the component of other comprehensive income relating to that foreign operation is recognized in net income.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation and any fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities arising on the acquisition are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the reporting date
exchange rate.
Translations from SAR to USD presented as supplementary information in the Consolidated Statement of Income, Consolidated
Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, and Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows at December 31, 2021 and 2020, are for convenience and were calculated at the rate of USD 1.00 = SAR 3.75
representing the exchange rate at the Consolidated Balance Sheet dates.
(x) Revenue recognition and sales prices
Revenue from sales of crude oil and related products is recognized upon the satisfaction of performance obligations, which occurs
when control transfers to the customer. Control of the products is determined to be transferred to the customer when the title of crude
oil and related products passes to the customer, which typically takes place when product is physically transferred into a vessel, pipe
or other delivery mechanism.
Revenue contracts for crude oil and certain related products provide for provisional pricing at the time of shipment, with final pricing
based on the average market price for a particular future period. Revenue on these contracts is recorded based on the estimate of the
final price at the time control is transferred to the customer. Any difference between the estimate and the final price is recorded as a
change in fair value of the related receivable, as part of revenue, in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Where applicable the
transaction price is allocated to the individual performance obligations of a contract based on their relative stand-alone selling prices.
(y) Other income related to sales
The Government compensates the Company through price equalization for revenue directly forgone as a result of the Company’s
compliance with local regulations governing domestic sales and distribution of certain liquid products, LPGs and certain other
products. This compensation reflected in these consolidated financial statements, is calculated by the Company as the difference
between the product’s equalization price and the corresponding domestic regulated price, net of Government fees, in accordance
with the implementing regulations issued by the Government in 2017 and 2019.
This compensation is recorded as other income related to sales, that is taxable, when the Company has satisfied its performance
obligations through transfer of the title to the buyer, which occurs when product is physically transferred. The compensation due from
the Government is characterized as a due from the Government (Note 2(n)) current receivable and is recognized initially at fair value
and subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method less impairment losses, if any.
The implementing regulations allow the Company to offset any amounts due from the Government against payment of taxes, and
in the event of insufficiency of tax balances, offsetting may extend against any other amounts due and payable by the Company to
the Government.
(z) Production royalties
Royalties to the Government are calculated based on a progressive scheme applied to crude oil and condensate production. An
effective royalty rate is applied to production based on the Company’s official selling prices. The effective royalty rate is determined
based on a baseline marginal rate of 15% applied to prices up to $70 per barrel, increasing to 45% applied to prices above $70 per
barrel and 80% applied to prices above $100 per barrel. All such royalties are accounted for as an expense in the Consolidated
Statement of Income and are deductible costs for Government income tax calculations.
(aa) Research and development
Development costs that are expected to generate probable future economic benefits are capitalized as intangible assets and amortized
over their estimated useful life. During the period of development, the asset is tested for impairment annually. All other research and
development costs are recognized in net income as incurred.
192 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 195]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
2. Summary of significant accounting policies, judgments and estimates continued
(bb) Dividends
Provision is made for the amount of any dividend declared, being appropriately authorized and no longer at the discretion
of the Company, on or before the end of the reporting period but not distributed at the end of the reporting period.
(cc) Earnings per share
(i) Basic earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing:
• the net income attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the Company; and
• by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the reporting period, adjusted for bonus elements
in ordinary shares issued during the period and excluding treasury shares.
(ii) Diluted earnings per share
Diluted earnings per share adjusts the figures used in the determination of basic earnings per share to take into account:
• the after income tax effect of interest and other financing costs associated with dilutive potential ordinary shares; and
• the weighted average number of additional ordinary shares that would have been outstanding assuming the conversion
of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
3. Financial risk management
Financial risks include market risk (including foreign currency exchange risk, price risk, and interest rate risk), credit risk, and liquidity
risk. Financial risk management is carried out primarily by a central treasury department. The adequacy of financial risk management
policies is regularly reviewed with consideration of current activities and market conditions on a consolidated basis. Saudi Aramco uses
derivative financial instruments with limited complexity to manage certain risk exposures and does not enter into or trade financial
instruments, including derivative financial instruments, for speculative purposes.
(a) Financial risk factors
(i) Market risk
1) Foreign currency exchange risk — The risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate due to
changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Saudi Aramco operates internationally but has limited exposure to financial risk due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates as
most significant transactions are denominated in its functional currency (Note 2(v)), are linked to its functional currency or are hedged.
Saudi Aramco’s limited foreign currency exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions or recognized assets or liabilities
denominated in a currency that is not Saudi Aramco’s functional currency. In addition, a substantial amount of costs of Saudi Aramco
are denominated in SAR which has been at a fixed rate to USD since 1986. A change in the fixed exchange rate would result in foreign
exchange differences being recognized in the consolidated financial statements.
Saudi Aramco engages in foreign currency hedging activities through the use of currency forward contracts to manage its exposure
from significant transactions denominated in a foreign currency. The hedge ratio considers variability in potential outcomes, spot rates,
as well as interest rates, and on a transaction by transaction basis, can cover up to 100% of the exposure at inception.
The notional amounts of outstanding currency forward contracts designated as hedging instruments are included in Note 30.
2) Price risk — The risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market
prices. Price risk primarily stems from investments in securities and commodity trading.
a) Investments in securities
Saudi Aramco has limited exposure to price risk with such risk arising from investments in securities carried at fair value.
Saudi Aramco regularly reviews its positions in investments in securities considering current and expected future economic trends.
At December 31, 2021 and 2020, a change in fair value due to a movement of 5% in the price of listed equity securities would result
in a change in other comprehensive income before income taxes of SAR 457 and SAR 403, respectively.
At December 31, 2021 and 2020, a change in fair value due to a movement of 5% in the unit price of equities and mutual and hedge
funds would result in a change in income before income taxes of SAR 18 and SAR 124, respectively.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 193
[Page 196]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
3. Financial risk management continued
b) Commodity swaps
Saudi Aramco trades crude, natural gas liquids and various refined and bulk petrochemical products and uses commodity swaps as a
means of managing price and timing of risks arising from this trading. In effecting these transactions, Saudi Aramco operates within
policies and procedures designed to ensure that risks, including those related to the default of counterparties, are managed within
authorized limits. The notional amounts of outstanding commodity swap contracts are included in Note 30.
3) Interest rate risk — The risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in
market interest rates.
Saudi Aramco is exposed to interest rate risk from changes in interest rates that affect the fair value or future cash flows of financial
instruments, principally borrowings, issued at variable and fixed rates. Borrowings issued at variable rates expose Saudi Aramco to
cash flow interest rate risk which is partially offset by short-term time deposits and debt securities held at variable rates. Borrowings
issued at fixed rates expose Saudi Aramco to fair value interest rate risk. Saudi Aramco may enter into interest rate swap agreements
as part of its overall strategy to manage the interest rate risk on its debt.
At December 31, 2021 and 2020, a change of 1% in market interest rates, with all other variables held constant, would result in a
net change of SAR 2,127 and SAR 696, respectively, in Saudi Aramco’s income before income taxes as a result of the effect of higher
or lower market interest rates.
The notional amounts of interest rate swap contracts are included in Note 30.
(ii) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that counterparties might not fulfill their contractual payment obligations towards an entity.
Saudi Aramco is exposed to credit risk related to its counterparties not performing or honoring their obligations which could result
in financial loss. Credit risk arises from credit exposures on trade and other receivables as well as from cash and cash equivalents,
short-term investments, debt securities, and derivatives with financial institutions. The maximum exposure to credit risk is the carrying
value of these assets.
Saudi Aramco’s trade receivables arise from a global customer base which limits geographic concentrations of credit risk. Moreover,
a credit risk policy is in place to ensure credit limits are extended to creditworthy counterparties and risk mitigation measures are
defined and implemented accordingly. Saudi Aramco performs ongoing evaluations of its counterparties’ financial standing and takes
additional measures to mitigate credit risk when considered appropriate by means of letter of credits, bank guarantees or parent
company guarantees.
In addition, the credit risk policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any individual counterparty based on their credit rating as
well as other factors. Moreover, Saudi Aramco’s investment policy limits exposure to credit risk arising from investment activities.
The policy requires that cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments be invested with a diversified group of financial
institutions with acceptable credit ratings. Saudi Aramco ensures that each counterparty is of an acceptable credit quality by relying
on quantitative and qualitative measures compiled from internal and third party rating models. At December 31, 2021, all the short-
term investments were with financial institutions assigned a long-term credit rating of “BBB” (2020: “BBB”) or above.
Employee home loans (Note 9) and debt securities are generally considered to have low credit risk based on history of default and
thus the impairment provision recognized during the year based on the general approach allowed by IFRS 9, where applicable, was
substantially limited to 12-month expected losses.
Saudi Aramco applies the simplified approach allowed by IFRS 9 in providing for expected credit losses for trade receivables which
uses the lifetime expected credit loss provision for all trade receivables. Such credit losses have historically been nominal and the loss
allowance for trade receivables (Note 12) is not material.
(iii) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that an entity will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with financial liabilities.
Saudi Aramco’s liquidity risk management includes maintaining sufficient cash and cash equivalents and ensuring the availability
of incremental funding through credit facilities (Note 20). Management also monitors and forecasts Saudi Aramco’s liquidity
requirements based on current and non-current expected cash flows.
194 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 197]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
3. Financial risk management continued
Saudi Aramco invests surplus cash in current accounts, time deposits, money market deposits, government repurchase agreements,
and marketable securities, choosing instruments with appropriate maturities or sufficient liquidity to meet forecasted cash flow
requirements. Saudi Aramco prioritizes security and liquidity over yield.
Note 20 analyzes Saudi Aramco’s borrowings into relevant maturity groupings based on the balances associated with each contractual
maturity date at the end of the reporting period.
Saudi Aramco has financial guarantees arising in the ordinary course of business. The earliest period in which such guarantees can be
called is the effective date as defined in the related agreements. The maximum exposure is limited to the gross value of such guarantees.
(b) Capital structure management
Saudi Aramco seeks to maintain a prudent capital structure, comprised of borrowings and shareholders’ equity, to support its capital
investment plans and maintain a sustainable dividend profile. Maintaining sufficient financial flexibility is considered strategically
important to mitigate industry cyclicality while also enabling the pursuit of organic and inorganic investment opportunities.
Borrowings or dividends will result in an adjustment to Saudi Aramco’s capital structure.
Gearing is a measure of the degree to which Saudi Aramco’s operations are financed by debt. Saudi Aramco defines gearing as the
ratio of net debt (total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents) to net debt plus total equity. Saudi Aramco’s gearing ratio at the
end of the reporting year was as follows:
2021 2020
Total borrowings (current and non-current) 510,921 536,077
Cash and cash equivalents (299,579) (207,232)
Net debt 211,342 328,845
Total equity 1,280,668 1,101,094
Total equity and net debt 1,492,010 1,429,939
Gearing 14.2% 23.0%
(c) Casualty loss risk retention
Saudi Aramco’s casualty loss risk strategy includes a risk retention and insurance program, including providing coverage to certain
joint arrangements and associates limited to Saudi Aramco’s percentage interest in the relevant entity. Current maximum risk retention
is SAR 2,988 per loss event (2020: SAR 3,138) and various insurance limits apply, of which the risk retention forms a part. Should a
credible loss event occur, the maximum insurance limit above retention is SAR 4,700 (2020: SAR 4,550) per event dependent on the
circumstances.
(d) Fair value estimation
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset
or transfer the liability takes place either in the principal market for the asset or liability or, in the absence of a principal market, in the
most advantageous market for the asset or liability. Management believes that the fair values of Saudi Aramco’s financial assets and
liabilities that are measured and recognized at amortized cost are not materially different from their carrying amounts at the end of
the reporting period.
Saudi Aramco measures financial instruments such as derivatives, equity investments and debt securities classified as FVPL, and equity
investments and debt securities classified as FVOCI, at fair value at each Consolidated Balance Sheet date. Saudi Aramco uses valuation
techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximizing
the use of relevant observable inputs and minimizing the use of unobservable inputs. All assets and liabilities for which fair value is
measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorized within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the
lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole:
• Level 1 — Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
• Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or
indirectly observable; and
• Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 195
[TABLE DATA]
510,921
(299,579)
211,342
1,280,668
1,492,010
14.2%
[Page 198]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
3. Financial risk management continued
The following table presents Saudi Aramco’s assets and liabilities measured and recognized at fair value at December 31, 2021 and
2020, based on the prescribed fair value measurement hierarchy on a recurring basis. Saudi Aramco did not measure any financial
assets or financial liabilities at fair value on a non-recurring basis at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Assets Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
2021
Investments in securities:
Equity securities at FVOCI 9,134 88 1,340 10,562
Debt securities at FVOCI 37 7,846 – 7,883
Equity securities at FVPL 359 1,861 3,928 6,148
Debt securities at FVPL 53 – – 53
Trade receivables related to contracts with provisional pricing arrangements – – 109,440 109,440
9,583 9,795 114,708 134,086
Other assets and receivables:
Interest rate swaps – 9 – 9
Commodity swaps – 1,489 83 1,572
Currency forward contracts – 32 – 32
Financial assets – option rights – – 2,390 2,390
– 1,530 2,473 4,003
Total assets 9,583 11,325 117,181 138,089
2020
Investments in securities:
Equity securities at FVOCI 8,051 174 1,475 9,700
Debt securities at FVOCI 21 6,948 – 6,969
Equity securities at FVPL 870 1,219 3,495 5,584
Debt securities at FVPL 53 – – 53
Trade receivables related to contracts with provisional pricing arrangements – – 54,402 54,402
8,995 8,341 59,372 76,708
Other assets and receivables:
Commodity swaps – 291 17 308
Currency forward contracts – 275 – 275
Financial assets – option rights – – 1,863 1,863
– 566 1,880 2,446
Total assets 8,995 8,907 61,252 79,154
196 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
|  |
|  |
9,134 | 88 | 1,340
37 | 7,846 | –
359 | 1,861 | 3,928
53 | – | –
– | – | 109,440
9,583 | 9,795 | 114,708
|  |
– | 9 | –
– | 1,489 | 83
– | 32 | –
– | – | 2,390
– | 1,530 | 2,473
9,583 | 11,325 | 117,181
10,562
7,883
6,148
53
109,440
134,086
9
1,572
32
2,390
4,003
138,089
[Page 199]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
3. Financial risk management continued
Liabilities Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
2021
Trade and other payables:
Interest rate swaps – 427 – 427
Commodity swaps 201 1,755 43 1,999
Currency forward contracts – 151 – 151
Provisions and other liabilities:
Financial liabilities – options and forward contracts – – 3,301 3,301
Total liabilities 201 2,333 3,344 5,878
2020
Trade and other payables:
Interest rate swaps – 874 – 874
Commodity swaps 78 159 28 265
Currency forward contracts – 212 – 212
Provisions and other liabilities:
Financial liabilities – options and forward contracts – – 1,995 1,995
Total liabilities 78 1,245 2,023 3,346
The valuation techniques for Saudi Aramco’s investments in securities are described in Note 10. The changes in Level 3 investments in
securities for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 are as follows:
2021 2020
January 1 4,970 6,162
Acquisition – 262
Net disposals (5) (1,681)
Net movement in unrealized fair value 407 (299)
Realized (loss) gain (104) 526
December 31 5,268 4,970
The movement in trade receivables related to contracts with provisional pricing arrangements mainly relates to sales transactions,
net of settlements, made during the period, resulting from contracts with customers (Note 12). Unrealized fair value movements on
these trade receivables are not significant.
The change in commodity swaps primarily relates to purchase and sales derivative contracts including recognition of a gain or loss
that results from adjusting a derivative to fair value. Fair value movements on these commodity swaps are not significant.
The movement in the financial assets and liabilities, which are related to options and forward contracts on Saudi Aramco’s own equity
instruments in certain subsidiaries, is mainly due to the change in the unrealized fair value during the period.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 197
[TABLE DATA]
|  |
|  |
– | 427 | –
201 | 1,755 | 43
– | 151 | –
|  |
– | – | 3,301
201 | 2,333 | 3,344
427
1,999
151
3,301
5,878
4,970
–
(5)
407
(104)
5,268
[Page 200]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
4. Operating segments
Saudi Aramco is engaged in prospecting, exploring, drilling, extracting, processing, manufacturing, refining and marketing
hydrocarbon substances within the Kingdom and has interests in refining, petrochemical, distribution, marketing and storage facilities
outside the Kingdom.
Saudi Aramco’s operating segments are established on the basis of those components that are evaluated regularly by the CEO, considered
to be the Chief Operating Decision Maker. The Chief Operating Decision Maker monitors the operating results of Saudi Aramco’s
operating segments separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment. Segment
performance is evaluated based on revenues, costs and a broad range of key performance indicators in addition to segment profitability.
For management purposes, Saudi Aramco is organized into business units based on the main types of activities. At December 31, 2021,
Saudi Aramco had two reportable segments, Upstream and Downstream, with all other supporting functions aggregated into a Corporate
segment. Upstream activities include crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids exploration, field development and production.
Downstream activities, which now include SABIC’s operations from the date of acquisition, consist primarily of refining and petrochemical
manufacturing, supply and trading, distribution and power generation, logistics, and marketing of crude oil and related services to
international and domestic customers. Corporate activities include primarily supporting services including Human Resources, Finance and
IT not allocated to Upstream and Downstream. Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm’s length basis in a manner
similar to transactions with third parties.
The accounting policies used by Saudi Aramco in reporting segments internally are the same as those contained in Note 2 of the
consolidated financial statements.
Information by segments is as follows:
Upstream Downstream Corporate Eliminations Consolidated
2021
External revenue 656,066 689,377 1,487 – 1,346,930
Other income related to sales 58,905 95,923 – – 154,828
Inter-segment revenue 300,466 37,728 291 (338,485) –
Share of results of joint ventures and associates (6) 8,066 (186) – 7,874
Depreciation and amortization (42,503) (37,764) (5,254) – (85,521)
Dividends and other income – 336 46 – 382
Earnings (losses) before interest, income taxes and zakat 750,118 62,190 (13,533) (18,601) 780,174
Finance income 1,405
Finance costs (12,058)
Income before income taxes and zakat 769,521
Capital expenditures – cash basis 88,758 28,724 2,163 – 119,645
2020
External revenue 410,956 355,787 1,366 – 768,109
Other income related to sales 38,878 55,104 – – 93,982
Inter-segment revenue 155,636 30,330 304 (186,270) –
Share of results of joint ventures and associates (4) (3,401) (149) – (3,554)
Depreciation and amortization (39,702) (30,888) (5,618) – (76,208)
Dividends and other income – 408 3 – 411
Earnings (losses) before interest, income taxes and zakat 413,214 (20,170) (17,041) 4,214 380,217
Finance income 2,771
Finance costs (10,564)
Income before income taxes and zakat 372,424
Capital expenditures – cash basis 73,651 26,097 1,282 – 101,030
198 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
656,066 | 689,377 | 1,487 | –
58,905 | 95,923 | – | –
300,466 | 37,728 | 291 | (338,485)
(6) | 8,066 | (186) | –
(42,503) | (37,764) | (5,254) | –
– | 336 | 46 | –
750,118 | 62,190 | (13,533) | (18,601)
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
88,758 | 28,724 | 2,163 | –
1,346,930
154,828
–
7,874
(85,521)
382
780,174
1,405
(12,058)
769,521
119,645
[Page 201]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
4. Operating segments continued
Information by geographical area is as follows:
Out-of-
In-Kingdom Kingdom Total
2021
External revenue 892,467 454,463 1,346,930
Property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, investments in joint ventures and associates 1,221,638 252,905 1,474,543
2020
External revenue 538,360 229,749 768,109
Property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, investments in joint ventures and associates 1,245,524 194,459 1,439,983
Sales to external customers by region are based on the location of the Saudi Aramco entity, which made the sale. Out-of-Kingdom
revenue includes sales of SAR 148,488 originating from the United States of America (“USA”) (2020: SAR 110,652).
Property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and investments in joint ventures and associates by region are based on the location
of the Saudi Aramco entity holding the assets.
5. Property, plant and equipment
As of January 1, 2021, Saudi Aramco changed the presentation of the groups of assets under property, plant and equipment. The new
presentation is consistent with the generally accepted practice of presenting assets based on their nature as compared to the business
function where they are used in the company’s operations. This change has no current or future impact on the total reported carrying
values, estimated useful lives or depreciation expense.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 199
[TABLE DATA]
|
892,467 | 454,463
1,221,638 | 252,905
1,346,930
1,474,543
[Page 202]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
5. Property, plant and equipment continued
The movement in cost and accumulated depreciation for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 based on the new presentation
is provided below:
Plant, Depots,
machinery storage Fixtures, IT
Land and land Oil and gas and tanks and and office Construction-
improvements Buildings properties equipment pipelines equipment in-progress Total
Cost
January 1, 2021 (revised) 52,464 83,070 560,187 827,044 78,357 18,902 242,450 1,862,474
Additions1 581 2,093 386 13,025 144 579 109,792 126,600
Construction completed 799 2,919 37,146 57,832 5,215 941 (104,852) –
Currency translation
differences (619) (748) – (5,702) (602) (131) (497) (8,299)
Transfers and adjustments2 99 386 (229) (2,804) 1,280 (44) (2,336) (3,648)
Transfer of exploration
and evaluation assets – – – – – – 2,365 2,365
Retirements and sales (225) (1,309) (995) (11,352) (284) (693) (747) (15,605)
December 31, 2021 53,099 86,411 596,495 878,043 84,110 19,554 246,175 1,963,887
Accumulated depreciation
January 1, 2021 (revised) (16,618) (36,587) (207,678) (339,740) (41,364) (11,027) – (653,014)
Charge for the year (1,407) (3,549) (18,026) (55,505) (3,077) (1,390) – (82,954)
Currency translation
differences 4 434 – 3,023 232 103 – 3,796
Transfers and adjustments (10) 40 20 648 249 20 – 967
Retirements and sales 42 1,059 411 9,161 281 680 – 11,634
December 31, 2021 (17,989) (38,603) (225,273) (382,413) (43,679) (11,614) – (719,571)
Property, plant and
equipment – net,
December 31, 2021 35,110 47,808 371,222 495,630 40,431 7,940 246,175 1,244,316
Cost
January 1, 2020 37,867 55,514 501,777 596,592 69,005 12,575 291,482 1,564,812
Additions1 55 358 2,105 17,445 356 155 102,024 122,498
Acquisition (Note 35) 11,278 17,154 – 118,207 – 4,250 28,424 179,313
Construction completed 2,773 9,237 55,300 101,291 8,720 2,034 (179,355) –
Currency translation
differences 476 848 – 5,260 455 117 816 7,972
Transfers and adjustments2 103 151 1,103 (2,158) (117) 226 (1,922) (2,614)
Transfer of exploration
and evaluation assets – – – – – – 1,102 1,102
Retirements and sales (88) (192) (98) (9,593) (62) (455) (121) (10,609)
December 31, 2020 52,464 83,070 560,187 827,044 78,357 18,902 242,450 1,862,474
Accumulated depreciation
January 1, 2020 (15,356) (32,737) (191,534) (294,751) (38,550) (9,870) – (582,798)
Charge for the year (1,246) (3,416) (15,957) (48,009) (2,676) (1,406) – (72,710)
Currency translation
differences (5) (473) – (3,840) (171) (79) – (4,568)
Transfers and adjustments (16) (30) (264) 131 11 (53) – (221)
Retirements and sales 5 69 77 6,729 22 381 – 7,283
December 31, 2020 (16,618) (36,587) (207,678) (339,740) (41,364) (11,027) – (653,014)
Property, plant and
equipment – net,
December 31, 2020 35,846 46,483 352,509 487,304 36,993 7,875 242,450 1,209,460
1. Borrowing cost capitalized during the year ended December 31, 2021, amounted to SAR 3,285 (2020: SAR 1,316) calculated using an average capitalization rate of 2.65% (2020: 2.4%).
2. Saudi Aramco recognized write-down of SAR 875 (2020: SAR 2,631) on certain downstream facilities, including a facility under construction of SAR 140 (2020: SAR 1,741).
200 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |  |  |  |
52,464 | 83,070 | 560,187 | 827,044 | 78,357 | 18,902 | 242,450
581 | 2,093 | 386 | 13,025 | 144 | 579 | 109,792
799 | 2,919 | 37,146 | 57,832 | 5,215 | 941 | (104,852)
(619) | (748) | – | (5,702) | (602) | (131) | (497)
99 | 386 | (229) | (2,804) | 1,280 | (44) | (2,336)
– | – | – | – | – | – | 2,365
(225) | (1,309) | (995) | (11,352) | (284) | (693) | (747)
53,099 | 86,411 | 596,495 | 878,043 | 84,110 | 19,554 | 246,175
|  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |
(16,618) | (36,587) | (207,678) | (339,740) | (41,364) | (11,027) | –
(1,407) | (3,549) | (18,026) | (55,505) | (3,077) | (1,390) | –
4 | 434 | – | 3,023 | 232 | 103 | –
(10) | 40 | 20 | 648 | 249 | 20 | –
42 | 1,059 | 411 | 9,161 | 281 | 680 | –
(17,989) | (38,603) | (225,273) | (382,413) | (43,679) | (11,614) | –
35,110 | 47,808 | 371,222 | 495,630 | 40,431 | 7,940 | 246,175
1,862,474
126,600
–
(8,299)
(3,648)
2,365
(15,605)
1,963,887
(653,014)
(82,954)
3,796
967
11,634
(719,571)
1,244,316
[Page 203]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
5. Property, plant and equipment continued
The movement in cost and accumulated depreciation for the year ended December 31, 2020 based on the previous presentation of
assets is as follows:
Refinery and
Crude oil petrochemical Gas and NGL General Construction-
facilities facilities facilities service plant in-progress Total
Cost
January 1, 2020 537,299 231,049 396,400 108,582 291,482 1,564,812
Additions 8,965 4,881 484 6,144 102,024 122,498
Acquisition (Note 35) – 150,889 – – 28,424 179,313
Construction completed 67,333 24,853 58,232 28,937 (179,355) –
Currency translation differences – 7,158 – (2) 816 7,972
Transfers and adjustments (17) 9 40 (724) (1,922) (2,614)
Transfer of exploration and evaluation assets – – – – 1,102 1,102
Retirements and sales (1,717) (4,900) (362) (3,509) (121) (10,609)
December 31, 2020 611,863 413,939 454,794 139,428 242,450 1,862,474
Accumulated depreciation
January 1, 2020 (271,105) (78,033) (174,300) (59,360) – (582,798)
Charge for the year (23,910) (23,189) (17,476) (8,135) – (72,710)
Currency translation differences – (4,568) – – – (4,568)
Transfers and adjustments 9 (215) 32 (47) – (221)
Retirements and sales 699 4,572 345 1,667 – 7,283
December 31, 2020 (294,307) (101,433) (191,399) (65,875) – (653,014)
Property, plant and equipment –
net, December 31, 2020 317,556 312,506 263,395 73,553 242,450 1,209,460
Additions to right-of-use assets during the year ended December 31, 2021 were SAR 12,270 (2020: SAR 16,278). There was no acquisition
of right-of-use assets during the year ended December 31, 2021 (2020: SAR 7,003). The following table presents depreciation charges and
carrying amounts of right-of-use assets by class of assets. Information on lease liabilities and related finance costs is provided in Note 20.
Depreciation Depreciation
expense for expense for
the year Net carrying the year Net carrying
ended amount at ended amount at
December December December December
31, 2021 31, 2021 31, 2020 31, 2020
Land and land improvements 190 3,773 254 3,337
Buildings 727 3,596 369 2,285
Oil and gas properties 5 25 – –
Plant, machinery and equipment 10,134 36,933 9,595 46,748
Depots, storage tanks and pipelines 334 2,198 264 1,262
Fixtures, IT and office equipment 93 463 20 106
11,483 46,988 10,502 53,738
The depreciation charges and carrying amounts of right-of-use assets by class of assets for the year ended December 31, 2020 based
on the previous presentation of assets is as follows:
Depreciation
expense for
the year Net carrying
ended amount at
December December
31, 2020 31, 2020
Crude oil facilities 3,624 11,163
Refinery and petrochemical facilities 2,597 17,336
Gas and NGL facilities 163 395
General service plant 4,118 24,844
10,502 53,738
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 201
[TABLE DATA]
190 | 3,773
727 | 3,596
5 | 25
10,134 | 36,933
334 | 2,198
93 | 463
11,483 | 46,988
[Page 204]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
6. Intangible assets
Exploration Franchise/
and Brands and customer Computer
Goodwill evaluation1 trademarks relationships software Other2 Total
Cost
January 1, 2021 100,204 21,160 23,077 19,827 5,065 2,849 172,182
Additions – 3,299 – – 134 243 3,676
Currency translation differences (16) – (119) (23) (36) (136) (330)
Transfers and adjustments – – (84) (84) 1 128 (39)
Transfer of exploration and
evaluation assets – (2,365) – – – – (2,365)
Retirements and write offs – (2,875) – – (15) (155) (3,045)
December 31, 2021 100,188 19,219 22,874 19,720 5,149 2,929 170,079
Accumulated amortization
January 1, 2021 – – (1,915) (1,501) (3,270) (949) (7,635)
Charge for the year – – (410) (953) (483) (581) (2,427)
Currency translation differences – – 6 3 10 285 304
Transfers and adjustments – – 84 84 7 6 181
Retirements and write offs – – – – 15 151 166
December 31, 2021 – – (2,235) (2,367) (3,721) (1,088) (9,411)
Intangible assets – net,
December 31, 2021 100,188 19,219 20,639 17,353 1,428 1,841 160,668
Cost
January 1, 2020 1,077 21,913 4,791 1,764 4,428 1,680 35,653
Additions – 3,894 – – 226 197 4,317
Acquisition (Note 35) 99,116 – 18,215 17,985 260 619 136,195
Currency translation differences 11 – 20 23 42 143 239
Transfers and adjustments – (1) 51 55 142 259 506
Transfer of exploration and
evaluation assets – (1,102) – – – – (1,102)
Retirements and write offs – (3,544) – – (33) (49) (3,626)
December 31, 2020 100,204 21,160 23,077 19,827 5,065 2,849 172,182
Accumulated amortization
January 1, 2020 – – (1,448) (866) (2,835) (382) (5,531)
Charge for the year – – (405) (572) (437) (343) (1,757)
Currency translation differences – – (11) (8) (30) (89) (138)
Transfers and adjustments – – (51) (55) (1) (161) (268)
Retirements and write offs – – – – 33 26 59
December 31, 2020 – – (1,915) (1,501) (3,270) (949) (7,635)
Intangible assets – net,
December 31, 2020 100,204 21,160 21,162 18,326 1,795 1,900 164,547
1. Cash used for exploration and evaluation operating activities in 2021 was SAR 4,410 (2020: SAR 3,749) and expenditures for investing activities were SAR 3,299 (2020: SAR 3,894).
2. Other intangible assets include licenses, technology and usage rights of SAR 593 (2020: SAR 652) and patents and intellectual property of SAR 1,248 (2020: SAR 1,248). These include
technology and licenses of SAR 619 recognized on the acquisition of SABIC in 2020.
202 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |  |  |
100,204 | 21,160 | 23,077 | 19,827 | 5,065 | 2,849
– | 3,299 | – | – | 134 | 243
(16) | – | (119) | (23) | (36) | (136)
– | – | (84) | (84) | 1 | 128
– | (2,365) | – | – | – | –
– | (2,875) | – | – | (15) | (155)
100,188 | 19,219 | 22,874 | 19,720 | 5,149 | 2,929
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
– | – | (1,915) | (1,501) | (3,270) | (949)
– | – | (410) | (953) | (483) | (581)
– | – | 6 | 3 | 10 | 285
– | – | 84 | 84 | 7 | 6
– | – | – | – | 15 | 151
– | – | (2,235) | (2,367) | (3,721) | (1,088)
100,188 | 19,219 | 20,639 | 17,353 | 1,428 | 1,841
172,182
3,676
(330)
(39)
(2,365)
(3,045)
170,079
(7,635)
(2,427)
304
181
166
(9,411)
160,668
[Page 205]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
6. Intangible assets continued
As a result of the acquisition of SABIC (Note 35) certain intangible assets have been recognized in 2020. These are being amortized on a
straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, with the exception of the goodwill arising from the transaction, which has an indefinite
useful life, and the SABIC brand, which has been determined to have an indefinite useful life and are not subject to amortization.
Saudi Aramco performed an annual impairment test for the goodwill acquired as part of the SABIC acquisition, which is allocated to
the Downstream operating segment. The recoverable amount of the Downstream operating segment was determined based on VIU
calculations which require use of certain assumptions. The calculations used cash flow projections for a period of 10 years based on
financial plans approved by management. Cash flows were discounted and aggregated with a terminal value. Management estimate
for the cash flows is based on past performance and management’s expectation of the future. This includes management’s forecast
for prices and margins for the downstream operations. Growth rate used in the terminal value calculation represents long-term
inflation forecast. Pre-tax discount rate of 8.6% (2020: 7.8%) was applied to the cash flows. As a result of the analysis, management
did not identify any impairment of goodwill related to the SABIC acquisition.
Saudi Aramco also performed an annual impairment test for the brand acquired as part of the SABIC acquisition. The impairment test
was performed by aggregating the relevant cash-generating units. Cash flows were calculated in the same way as for the goodwill
impairment test. The cash flows were discounted using the pre-tax discount rate of 7.8% (2020: 7.8%). As a result of the analysis,
management did not identify any impairment.
Management believes a reasonable range of increase or decrease in any of the assumptions within the projected cash flows would
not change the outcome of the impairment analysis for the goodwill or the brand.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 203
[Page 206]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
7. Investments in joint ventures and associates
Carrying Carrying
amount at amount at
Equity Principal place of December December
Company ownership business Nature of activities 31, 2021 31, 2020
Joint ventures
Saudi Yanbu Petrochemical Company
(“Yanpet”)1 50% Saudi Arabia Petrochemical 10,597 11,311
Sinopec SABIC Tianjin Petrochemical Company People’s Republic
(“SSTPC”)1 50% of China Petrochemical 7,644 7,621
Al-Jubail Petrochemical Company ("Kemya")1 50% Saudi Arabia Petrochemical 6,229 5,696
Eastern Petrochemical Company (“Sharq”)1 50% Saudi Arabia Petrochemical 5,912 6,783
Sadara Chemical Company (“Sadara”)2,4 65% Saudi Arabia Petrochemical 4,070 1,746
Other 3,551 3,041
38,003 36,198
Associates
Clariant AG (“Clariant”)1,5 31.5% Switzerland Specialty chemical 8,465 8,913
Power & Water Utility Company for Jubail
and Yanbu (“Marafiq”)6 49.6% Saudi Arabia Utilities 3,924 3,630
Refining/marketing/
Hyundai Oilbank Co. Ltd. ("Hyundai Oilbank")3 17% South Korea petrochemical 3,684 3,853
Aluminium Bahrain BSC (“ALBA”)1,5 20.6% Bahrain Aluminum 2,477 1,660
Fujian Refining and Petrochemical Company People’s Republic
Limited (“FREP”) 25% of China Refining/petrochemical 2,466 2,172
Ma’aden Phosphate Company (“MPC”)1 30% Saudi Arabia Agri-Nutrients 2,162 1,632
National Shipping Company of Saudi Arabia
(“Bahri”)5 20% Saudi Arabia Global logistics services 2,141 2,263
Rabigh Refining and Petrochemical Company
(“Petro Rabigh”)4,5 37.5% Saudi Arabia Refining/petrochemical 1,838 1,096
Ma’aden Wa’ad Al Shamal Phosphate Company
(“MWSPC”)1,3 15% Saudi Arabia Agri-Nutrients 1,586 1,426
Other 2,813 3,133
31,556 29,778
69,559 65,976
1. On June 16, 2020, SABIC became a subsidiary of the Company and as a result, Saudi Aramco acquired interest in its joint ventures/associates (Note 35). Equity ownership represents
SABIC’s shareholding in these investments.
2. Agreements and constitutive documents do not give a single shareholder control; therefore, the joint venture does not qualify as a subsidiary and has not been consolidated.
3. Agreements and constitutive documents provide Saudi Aramco significant influence over this entity.
4. Saudi Aramco has provided guarantees as described in Note 33.
5. Listed company.
6. In 2020, Saudi Aramco’s existing interest increased from 24.8% to 49.6% due to the acquisition of SABIC, which also has an interest in Marafiq (Note 35).
204 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
10,597
7,644
6,229
5,912
4,070
3,551
38,003
8,465
3,924
3,684
2,477
2,466
2,162
2,141
1,838
1,586
2,813
31,556
69,559
[Page 207]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
7. Investments in joint ventures and associates continued
The components of the change in the investments in joint ventures and associates for the years ended December 31 are as follows:
Joint ventures Associates
2021 2020 2021 2020
January 1 36,198 5,698 29,778 14,040
Acquisition (Note 35) – 33,269 – 18,595
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 4,606 (1,749) 3,268 (1,805)
Additional investment 373 263 184 274
Distributions (3,738) (867) (913) (1,734)
Change in elimination of profit in inventory (442) (230) (108) 209
Share of other comprehensive (loss) income 145 (303) (292) 853
Reclassification between joint venture and associate – 374 – (374)
Other 861 (257) (361) (280)
December 31 38,003 36,198 31,556 29,778
On February 14, 2022, Clariant announced that the publication of its fourth quarter and full year 2021 results will be delayed due to
an investigation into accounting issues related to certain provisions and accruals. Therefore, Saudi Aramco is not able to disclose the
required summarized financial information for the year ended December 31, 2021. Further, the movement in the carrying value of
the investment in Clariant during 2021 is based on its latest published financial statements for the half year ended June 30, 2021
and management’s best estimates.
Summarized financial information (100%) for joint ventures and associates and reconciliation with the carrying amount of the
investments in the consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2021, are set out below:
Summarized Balance Sheet
At December 31, 2021
Hyundai
Yanpet SSTPC Kemya Sharq Sadara Marafiq Oilbank ALBA FREP MPC Bahri
Current assets:
Cash and cash equivalents 555 2,838 89 663 1,990 657 1,101 928 3,859 687 1,666
Other 4,435 2,023 4,224 4,831 10,175 3,387 16,554 6,180 5,505 3,664 2,564
Total current assets 4,990 4,861 4,313 5,494 12,165 4,044 17,655 7,108 9,364 4,351 4,230
Non-current assets 4,576 11,932 11,119 11,408 51,415 20,100 39,244 19,000 8,314 12,860 17,519
Current liabilities:
Financial liabilities (excluding
trade and other payables) 1,713 1,285 1,922 1,370 3,294 1,369 4,517 2,245 686 2,615 4,921
Other 647 1,155 336 839 2,448 1,483 11,815 1,848 2,952 238 2,205
Total current liabilities 2,360 2,440 2,258 2,209 5,742 2,852 16,332 4,093 3,638 2,853 7,126
Non-current liabilities 1,434 4,699 2,000 2,700 50,829 13,955 22,915 7,064 4,175 5,528 4,780
Net assets 5,772 9,654 11,174 11,993 7,009 7,337 17,652 14,951 9,865 8,830 9,843
Saudi Aramco interest 50% 50% 50% 50% 65% 49.6% 17% 20.6% 25% 30% 20%
Saudi Aramco share 2,886 4,827 5,587 5,997 4,556 3,639 3,001 3,080 2,466 2,649 1,969
Fair value and other
adjustments at Saudi
Aramco level 7,711 2,817 642 (85) (486) 285 683 (603) – (487) 172
Investment balance
at December 31 10,597 7,644 6,229 5,912 4,070 3,924 3,684 2,477 2,466 2,162 2,141
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 205
[TABLE DATA]
36,198
–
4,606
373
(3,738)
(442)
145
–
861
38,003
29,778
–
3,268
184
(913)
(108)
(292)
–
(361)
31,556
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
555 | 2,838 | 89 | 663 | 1,990 | 657 | 1,101 | 928 | 3,859 | 687 | 1,666
4,435 | 2,023 | 4,224 | 4,831 | 10,175 | 3,387 | 16,554 | 6,180 | 5,505 | 3,664 | 2,564
4,990 | 4,861 | 4,313 | 5,494 | 12,165 | 4,044 | 17,655 | 7,108 | 9,364 | 4,351 | 4,230
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
4,576 | 11,932 | 11,119 | 11,408 | 51,415 | 20,100 | 39,244 | 19,000 | 8,314 | 12,860 | 17,519
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
1,713 | 1,285 | 1,922 | 1,370 | 3,294 | 1,369 | 4,517 | 2,245 | 686 | 2,615 | 4,921
647 | 1,155 | 336 | 839 | 2,448 | 1,483 | 11,815 | 1,848 | 2,952 | 238 | 2,205
2,360 | 2,440 | 2,258 | 2,209 | 5,742 | 2,852 | 16,332 | 4,093 | 3,638 | 2,853 | 7,126
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
1,434 | 4,699 | 2,000 | 2,700 | 50,829 | 13,955 | 22,915 | 7,064 | 4,175 | 5,528 | 4,780
5,772 | 9,654 | 11,174 | 11,993 | 7,009 | 7,337 | 17,652 | 14,951 | 9,865 | 8,830 | 9,843
50% | 50% | 50% | 50% | 65% | 49.6% | 17% | 20.6% | 25% | 30% | 20%
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
2,886 | 4,827 | 5,587 | 5,997 | 4,556 | 3,639 | 3,001 | 3,080 | 2,466 | 2,649 | 1,969
7,711 | 2,817 | 642 | (85) | (486) | 285 | 683 | (603) | – | (487) | 172
10,597 | 7,644 | 6,229 | 5,912 | 4,070 | 3,924 | 3,684 | 2,477 | 2,466 | 2,162 | 2,141
[Page 208]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
7. Investments in joint ventures and associates continued
Summarized Statement of Comprehensive Income
Year ended December 31, 2021
Hyundai
Yanpet SSTPC Kemya Sharq Sadara Marafiq Oilbank ALBA FREP MPC Bahri
Revenue 7,597 11,157 9,820 10,420 17,697 4,636 59,815 15,766 27,451 6,567 5,073
Depreciation and amortization 463 682 874 1,379 3,498 1,033 1,218 1,223 1,428 1,068 890
Conventional interest income 1 123 – 3 2 14 301 23 85 9 –
Interest expense 38 53 70 36 2,178 182 817 389 239 – 178
Income tax expense 350 239 456 311 223 72 625 10 347 56 63
Net income 2,522 594 2,550 1,753 2,903 423 1,387 4,495 1,109 1,769 178
Dividends received
from JVs/associates 1,360 275 730 1,273 – 75 54 77 37 – 158
Summarized financial information (100%) for individually immaterial joint ventures and associates is set out below:
Joint
ventures Associates
Net income 227 3,896
206 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
7,597 | 11,157 | 9,820 | 10,420 | 17,697 | 4,636 | 59,815 | 15,766 | 27,451 | 6,567 | 5,073
463 | 682 | 874 | 1,379 | 3,498 | 1,033 | 1,218 | 1,223 | 1,428 | 1,068 | 890
1 | 123 | – | 3 | 2 | 14 | 301 | 23 | 85 | 9 | –
38 | 53 | 70 | 36 | 2,178 | 182 | 817 | 389 | 239 | – | 178
350 | 239 | 456 | 311 | 223 | 72 | 625 | 10 | 347 | 56 | 63
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
2,522 | 594 | 2,550 | 1,753 | 2,903 | 423 | 1,387 | 4,495 | 1,109 | 1,769 | 178
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
1,360 | 275 | 730 | 1,273 | – | 75 | 54 | 77 | 37 | – | 158
227 | 3,896
[Page 209]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
7. Investments in joint ventures and associates continued
Summarized financial information (100%) for joint ventures and associates and reconciliation with the carrying amount of the
investments in the consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2020, are set out below. Statement of Comprehensive Income is
presented for the full year including for entities acquired during the year:
Summarized Balance Sheet
At December 31, 2020
Hyundai
Yanpet Clariant SSTPC Kemya Sharq Sadara Marafiq Oilbank ALBA FREP MPC Bahri
Current assets:
Cash and cash
equivalents 543 3,126 3,024 204 454 932 372 738 442 4,281 974 543
Other 3,706 10,894 1,533 3,224 4,850 7,690 2,463 9,949 3,567 4,329 2,119 3,538
Total current assets 4,249 14,020 4,557 3,428 5,304 8,622 2,835 10,687 4,009 8,610 3,093 4,081
Non-current assets 4,406 24,930 11,323 12,244 12,865 54,179 19,672 33,720 19,403 8,899 13,420 16,865
Current liabilities:
Financial liabilities
(excluding trade and
other payables) 964 1,688 1,371 1,713 776 5,329 1,076 3,234 2,258 691 1,452 885
Other 481 7,083 958 491 680 2,286 949 7,294 2,322 2,959 310 1,485
Total current liabilities 1,445 8,771 2,329 2,204 1,456 7,615 2,025 10,528 4,580 3,650 1,762 2,370
Non-current liabilities 1,424 14,760 4,113 3,126 2,816 52,073 12,796 17,220 8,093 5,170 7,688 8,154
Net assets 5,786 15,419 9,438 10,342 13,897 3,113 7,686 16,659 10,739 8,689 7,063 10,422
Saudi Aramco interest 50% 31.5% 50% 50% 50% 65% 49.6% 17% 20.6% 25% 30% 20%
Saudi Aramco share 2,893 4,857 4,719 5,171 6,949 2,023 3,806 2,832 2,212 2,172 2,119 2,084
Fair value and other
adjustments at Saudi
Aramco level 8,418 4,056 2,902 525 (166) (277) (176) 1,021 (552) – (487) 179
Investment balance
at December 31 11,311 8,913 7,621 5,696 6,783 1,746 3,630 3,853 1,660 2,172 1,632 2,263
Summarized Statement of Comprehensive Income
Year ended December 31, 2020
Hyundai
Yanpet Clariant SSTPC Kemya Sharq Sadara Marafiq Oilbank ALBA FREP MPC Bahri
Revenue 5,139 15,713 6,652 6,679 6,944 10,510 3,854 32,720 10,563 21,029 4,005 9,064
Depreciation and
amortization 562 1,141 622 909 1,363 3,299 1,192 1,388 1,170 1,379 1,028 876
Conventional interest
income 5 64 105 2 4 – 11 327 27 64 5 –
Interest expense 45 428 76 135 33 2,334 219 536 397 291 268 294
Income tax expense 27 407 135 38 90 54 71 (662) 3 47 38 94
Net income (loss) 998 (721) 410 672 298 (3,350) 319 (1,364) 97 172 (38) 1,787
Dividends received
from JVs/associates 348 1,247 – 105 350 – 56 105 – 79 – 149
Summarized financial information (100%) for individually immaterial joint ventures and associates is set out below:
Joint
ventures Associates
Net loss (62) (4,207)
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 207
[Page 210]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
7. Investments in joint ventures and associates continued
Saudi Aramco’s share of the fair value of the listed associates at December 31, together with their carrying value at those dates, is as follows:
Fair value Carrying value
2021 2020 2021 2020
Clariant 8,160 8,380 8,465 8,913
Petro Rabigh 6,800 4,540 1,838 1,096
Bahri 2,555 3,193 2,141 2,263
ALBA 2,330 1,450 2,477 1,660
8. Income taxes and zakat
(a) Kingdom income tax rates
The Company is subject to an income tax rate of 20% on its Downstream activities and on the activities of exploration and production of
non-associated natural gas, including gas condensates, as well as the collection, treatment, processing, fractionation and transportation
of associated and non-associated natural gas and their liquids, gas condensates and other associated elements. All other activities are
subject to an income tax rate of 50%, in accordance with the Tax Law. The 20% income tax rate applicable to the Company’s Downstream
activities, which came into effect on January 1, 2020, is conditional on the Company separating its Downstream activities under the control
of one or more separate wholly owned subsidiaries before December 31, 2024, otherwise the Company’s Downstream activities will be
retroactively taxed at 50%. The Company expects to transfer all its Downstream activities into a separate legal entity or entities within the
period specified.
During 2020, the Tax Law was amended, effective January 1, 2020, whereby shares held directly or indirectly in listed companies on
the Tadawul by taxpayers engaged in oil and hydrocarbon activities are exempt from the application of corporate income tax. As a
result, the Company’s ownership interests in SABIC, Rabigh Refining and Petrochemical Company (“Petro Rabigh”), National Shipping
Company of Saudi Arabia (“Bahri”) and Saudi Electricity Company (“SEC”) are now subject to zakat.
The reconciliation of tax charge at the Kingdom statutory rates to consolidated tax and zakat expense is as follows:
2021 2020
Income before income taxes and zakat 769,521 372,424
Less: Income subject to zakat (27,766) (3,754)
Income subject to income tax 741,755 368,670
Income taxes at the Kingdom’s statutory tax rates 356,610 178,808
Tax effect of:
(Income) loss not subject to tax at statutory rates and other (1,455) 9,082
Income tax expense 355,155 187,890
Zakat expense 1,970 771
Total income tax and zakat expense 357,125 188,661
(b) Income tax and zakat expense
2021 2020
Current income tax – Kingdom 338,506 173,534
Current income tax – Foreign 877 614
Deferred income tax – Kingdom 13,060 16,932
Deferred income tax – Foreign 2,712 (3,190)
Zakat – Kingdom 1,970 771
357,125 188,661
Saudi Aramco paid foreign taxes of SAR 808 and SAR 427 for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
Income tax charge recorded through other comprehensive income was SAR 6,010 for the year ended December 31, 2021 (2020:
income tax credit of SAR 9,331).
208 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
8,160
6,800
2,555
2,330
8,465
1,838
2,141
2,477
769,521
(27,766)
741,755
356,610
(1,455)
355,155
1,970
357,125
338,506
877
13,060
2,712
1,970
357,125
[Page 211]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
8. Income taxes and zakat continued
(c) Income tax and zakat obligation to the Government
2021 2020
January 1 42,059 62,243
Acquisition – 3,288
Provided during the period 340,476 174,305
Payments during the period by the Company (Note 28) (141,699) (72,582)
Payments during the period by subsidiaries and joint operations (3,816) (2,806)
Settlements of due from the Government (142,419) (116,872)
Other settlements (4,076) (5,517)
December 31 90,525 42,059
(d) Deferred income tax
2021 2020
Deferred income tax assets:
Kingdom 13,716 13,749
U.S. Federal and State 88 84
Other foreign 1,165 1,447
14,969 15,280
Deferred income tax liabilities:
Kingdom 67,298 48,019
U.S. Federal and State 3,422 2,469
Other foreign 4,130 3,133
74,850 53,621
Net deferred income tax liabilities (59,881) (38,341)
The gross movement of the net deferred income tax position is as follows:
2021 2020
January 1 (38,341) (31,743)
Acquisition – (2,176)
Current period charge to income (15,772) (13,742)
Other reserves (charge) credits (6,010) 9,331
Other adjustments 242 (11)
December 31 (59,881) (38,341)
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 209
[TABLE DATA]
42,059
–
340,476
(141,699)
(3,816)
(142,419)
(4,076)
90,525
13,716
88
1,165
14,969
67,298
3,422
4,130
74,850
(59,881)
(38,341)
–
(15,772)
(6,010)
242
(59,881)
[Page 212]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
8. Income taxes and zakat continued
The movement in deferred income tax assets (liabilities) for the years ended December 31 is as follows:
Property
plant and
Post- equipment
employment Loss and Investments
benefit Investment Undistributed Provisions carry- intangible in securities
obligations in subsidiary earnings and other forward assets at FVOCI Total
January 1, 2020
Deferred income
tax assets 3,328 – – 653 9,263 (516) – 12,728
Deferred income
tax liabilities 7,128 (4,828) (736) 18,669 4,819 (67,341) (2,182) (44,471)
10,456 (4,828) (736) 19,322 14,082 (67,857) (2,182) (31,743)
Recognized during
the year
Acquisition 631 – (86) (2,721) – – – (2,176)
Current period
(charges) credits
to income (524) 309 35 2,869 7,595 (24,026) – (13,742)
Other reserves credits 7,395 – – – – – 1,936 9,331
Other adjustments – – – (11) – – – (11)
7,502 309 (51) 137 7,595 (24,026) 1,936 (6,598)
December 31, 2020
Deferred income
tax assets 4,301 – – 1,650 9,983 (654) – 15,280
Deferred income
tax liabilities 13,657 (4,519) (787) 17,809 11,694 (91,229) (246) (53,621)
17,958 (4,519) (787) 19,459 21,677 (91,883) (246) (38,341)
Recognized during
the year
Current period
(charges) credits
to income 457 (461) (310) 2,254 (1,877) (15,835) – (15,772)
Other reserves charge (5,865) – – – – – (145) (6,010)
Other adjustments – – – 242 – – – 242
(5,408) (461) (310) 2,496 (1,877) (15,835) (145) (21,540)
December 31, 2021
Deferred income
tax assets 4,236 – – 1,806 9,661 (734) – 14,969
Deferred income
tax liabilities 8,314 (4,980) (1,097) 20,149 10,139 (106,984) (391) (74,850)
12,550 (4,980) (1,097) 21,955 19,800 (107,718) (391) (59,881)
A deferred income tax liability has not been recognized with regard to the undistributed earnings of certain subsidiaries, which are
considered to be permanently reinvested in their respective businesses. Such earnings would be taxed only upon distribution. There
was no cumulative taxable undistributed earnings or unrecognized deferred income tax liability for such subsidiaries at December 31,
2021. The cumulative amount of the undistributed earnings of such subsidiaries at December 31, 2020 was SAR 29,080 and the
unrecognized deferred income tax liability was SAR 1,969. Also, a deferred income tax asset has not been recognized largely related
to cumulative unused tax losses of certain subsidiaries with carry-forward periods from 2022 to indefinite. Such losses are available for
offsetting against future taxable profits of the subsidiaries in which the losses arose. The cumulative amount of the unused tax losses
and other items is SAR 37,791 and SAR 32,336 at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, and the unrecognized deferred income
tax asset is SAR 9,296 and SAR 7,924 at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
210 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |  |  |  |
457 | (461) | (310) | 2,254 | (1,877) | (15,835) | –
(5,865) | – | – | – | – | – | (145)
– | – | – | 242 | – | – | –
(5,408) | (461) | (310) | 2,496 | (1,877) | (15,835) | (145)
|  |  |  |  |  |
4,236 | – | – | 1,806 | 9,661 | (734) | –
8,314 | (4,980) | (1,097) | 20,149 | 10,139 | (106,984) | (391)
12,550 | (4,980) | (1,097) | 21,955 | 19,800 | (107,718) | (391)
(15,772)
(6,010)
242
(21,540)
14,969
(74,850)
(59,881)
[Page 213]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
8. Income taxes and zakat continued
(e) Income tax and zakat assessments
The Company and the majority of its affiliates are subject to tax review and audit in tax jurisdictions where they operate. In June 2020,
the Company and its wholly owned domestic affiliates were notified that the Saudi Arabian income tax submissions for all years up to
and including the year ended December 31, 2019 were accepted as filed.
For the Company’s other domestic and international affiliates, examinations of tax and zakat returns for certain prior years had not
been completed as of December 31, 2021; however, the Company is not aware of any significant claims. Therefore, no material
provision for any additional income tax and zakat liability has been recorded in the consolidated financial statements.
9. Other assets and receivables
2021 2020
Non-current:
Home loans 12,919 10,155
Loans to joint ventures and associates (Note 29(b)) 12,299 13,252
Loans and advances 6,819 7,187
Financial assets – option rights 2,390 1,863
Home ownership construction 1,529 2,558
Receivable from Government, semi-Government and other entities
with Government ownership or control (Note 29(b)) 509 540
Lease receivable from associates (Note 29(b)) 416 426
Other 895 1,277
37,776 37,258
Current:
Employee and other receivables 9,066 6,831
Tax receivables 9,442 4,963
Prepaid expenses 4,358 3,355
Home loans 1,088 1,084
Investments in securities (Note 10) 1,515 826
Derivative assets 1,613 583
Interest receivable 390 217
Receivables from joint ventures and associates (Note 29(b)) 41 85
Assets held for sale 78 85
Other 605 740
28,196 18,769
Home loans
The home ownership programs provide subsidized non-interest-bearing loans to Saudi Arabian employees. Loans are repayable through
payroll deductions and are net of associated subsidies. Any balance remaining upon the death, permanent disability or termination of an
employee under the Chronic Medical Condition Program is forgiven. An analysis of the home loans balance is as follows:
2021 2020
Gross amounts receivable 16,251 13,237
Less:
Discount (1,503) (1,250)
Allowance for doubtful home loans (495) (466)
Subsidies (246) (282)
Net amounts receivable 14,007 11,239
Current (1,088) (1,084)
Non-current 12,919 10,155
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 211
[TABLE DATA]
12,919
12,299
6,819
2,390
1,529
509
416
895
37,776
9,066
9,442
4,358
1,088
1,515
1,613
390
41
78
605
28,196
16,251
(1,503)
(495)
(246)
14,007
(1,088)
12,919
[Page 214]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
10. Investments in securities
2021 2020
January 1 23,687 20,237
Acquisitions – 2,470
Net additions 1,252 789
Net unrealized fair value gain 413 128
Net unrealized foreign currency gain 324 63
December 31 25,676 23,687
Current (Note 9) (1,515) (826)
Non-current 24,161 22,861
Net additions include unsettled transactions of SAR (267) at December 31, 2021 (2020: SAR 190).
The components of investments in securities are as follows:
2021
Carrying
Percentage amount as of
ownership December 31
Equity investments at FVOCI:
Equity investments – listed securities:
Saudi Electricity Company (“SEC”) 6.9% 6,921
Idemitsu Kosan Co., Ltd. (“Idemitsu”) 7.8% 2,213
Equity investments – unlisted securities:
Arab Petroleum Pipelines Company (“Sumed”) 15.0% 821
Industrialization & Energy Services Company (“TAQA”) 4.6% 152
Daehan Oil Pipeline Corporation (“Daehan”) 8.9% 168
Other 287
Investments in debt securities at FVOCI:
USD debt securities with fixed interest rates ranging from 0.1% to 13.9%
and maturity dates between 2022 and 2071 6,285
USD debt securities with variable interest rates and maturity dates between 2022 and 2069 938
Mutual and hedge funds 660
18,445
Equity and debt investments at FVPL:
Listed securities – equities 359
Listed securities – debt 53
Unlisted securities 5,789
6,201
Investments in debt securities at amortized cost:
Debt securities with fixed interest rates ranging from 2.5% to 5.1% and maturity dates between 2022 and 2043 603
Debt securities with variable interest rates and maturity dates between 2022 and 2028 427
1,030
25,676
Current portion (Note 9) (1,515)
Non-current 24,161
212 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
23,687
–
1,252
413
324
25,676
(1,515)
24,161
|
|
6.9% | 6,921
7.8% | 2,213
|
|
15.0% | 821
4.6% | 152
8.9% | 168
| 287
|
|
| 6,285
| 938
| 660
| 18,445
|
| 359
| 53
| 5,789
| 6,201
|
| 603
| 427
| 1,030
|
| 25,676
| (1,515)
| 24,161
[Page 215]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
10. Investments in securities continued
2020
Carrying
Percentage amount as of
ownership December 31
Equity investments at FVOCI:
Equity investments – listed securities:
Saudi Electricity Company (“SEC”) 6.9% 6,146
Idemitsu Kosan Co., Ltd. (“Idemitsu”) 7.8% 1,905
Equity investments – unlisted securities:
Arab Petroleum Pipelines Company (“Sumed”) 15.0% 870
Industrialization & Energy Services Company (“TAQA”) 4.6% 195
Daehan Oil Pipeline Corporation (“Daehan”) 8.9% 154
Other 430
Investments in debt securities at FVOCI:
USD debt securities with fixed interest rates ranging from 0.1% to 13.9% and maturity dates
between 2021 and 2069 6,239
USD debt securities with variable interest rates and maturity dates between 2021 and 2069 730
16,669
Equity and debt investments at FVPL:
Listed securities – mutual and hedge funds 1,614
Listed securities – equities 870
Listed securities – debt 53
Unlisted securities 3,100
5,637
Investments in debt securities at amortized cost:
Debt securities with fixed interest rates ranging from 2.5% to 5.1% and maturity dates between 2021 and 2043 747
Debt securities with variable interest rates and maturity dates between 2021 and 2028 634
1,381
23,687
Current portion (Note 9) (826)
Non-current 22,861
Equity investments designated at FVOCI are not held for trading. Instead, they are held for medium to long-term strategic purposes.
Accordingly, management has elected to designate these equity investments at FVOCI as recognizing short-term fluctuations in these
investments’ fair value in net income would not be consistent with Saudi Aramco’s strategy of holding these investments for long-term
purposes and realizing their performance potential in the long run.
The fair value of Sumed is based on expected cash flows discounted using a rate based on market interest rates and a risk premium
specific to the unlisted security which was 11.35% and 7.7% at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The fair value of TAQA is
based on an earnings growth factor for unlisted equity securities from market information for similar types of companies. The fair
value of Daehan is determined using discounted cash flow analysis based on the risk-adjusted yield.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date of the investments in debt securities is the fair value. To limit credit risk,
Saudi Aramco’s investment policy requires that these securities be diversified. Credit ratings for debt securities held at December 31,
2021, range from AAA to BB (2020: AAA to BB) as set out by internationally recognized credit rating agencies.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 213
[Page 216]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
11. Inventories
2021 2020
Crude oil, refined products and chemicals 58,242 36,964
Materials and supplies – net 16,104 14,731
Natural gas liquids and other 357 304
74,703 51,999
The carrying amount of materials and supplies are shown net of an allowance for obsolete and surplus materials with movement as
follows:
2021 2020
Balance, January 1 2,995 1,997
Net movement in allowance 453 998
Balance, December 31 3,448 2,995
During 2020, a portion of the inventory purchased from third parties by certain subsidiaries was written down to its net realizable value.
12. Trade receivables
Trade receivables from export and local sales are denominated primarily in USD and SAR, respectively.
The components of trade receivables are as follows:
2021 2020
Arising from export and local sales at international prices 130,821 81,066
Arising from local sales at Kingdom regulated prices 9,817 5,186
140,638 86,252
Less: Loss allowance (265) (1,069)
140,373 85,183
Trade receivables relating to certain contracts with provisional pricing arrangements are measured at fair value. The fair value was
calculated using forward curves and future prices. These trade receivables are classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy (Note 3(d))
due to the inclusion of unobservable inputs, including counterparty credit risk in the fair value calculation.
As described in Note 2(n), the Government, through the Ministry of Finance, provided a guarantee to the Company in the event that
certain Government, semi-Government and other entities with Government ownership or control are unable to settle within the terms
agreed with the Company.
The movement of the allowance for trade receivables related to past due sales is as follows:
2021 2020
January 1 1,069 854
Net movement in allowance (804) 215
December 31 265 1,069
13. Due from the Government
2021 2020
Other income related to sales (Note 2(y)) 42,960 24,604
Government guarantee (Note 2(n)) (2,150) 3,605
Other 507 686
Note 29(b) 41,317 28,895
214 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
58,242
16,104
357
74,703
2,995
453
3,448
130,821
9,817
140,638
(265)
140,373
1,069
(804)
265
42,960
(2,150)
507
41,317
[Page 217]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
14. Short-term investments
2021 2020
USD time deposits 1,661 90
USD Murabaha time deposits (Shari’a compliant) 1,957 615
SAR time deposits 1,880 91
SAR Murabaha time deposits (Shari’a compliant) 21,510 4,792
South Korean Won time deposits 65 1,213
27,073 6,801
15. Cash and cash equivalents
2021 2020
Cash at bank and in hand 52,805 65,689
USD time deposits 195,766 112,115
USD Murabaha time deposits (Shari’a compliant) 21,210 14,816
SAR time deposits 3,574 5,096
SAR repurchase agreements – 1,260
SAR Murabaha time deposits (Shari’a compliant) 20,119 5,726
South Korean Won time deposits 6,105 2,530
299,579 207,232
16. Treasury shares
On December 11, 2019, the Company acquired 117.2 million ordinary shares from the Government for cash consideration of SAR 3,750.
These shares were classified by the Company as treasury shares for the purposes of issuing them to the Company’s employees upon
vesting of the shares in the employee share plans, including those that the Company may adopt in the future. The number of treasury
shares issued to employees during the year was 13.7 million (2020: 15.2 million) in relation to employee share plans awarded (Note 17).
The number of treasury shares outstanding as at December 31, 2021 was 88.3 million (2020: 102 million).
17. Share-based compensation
Share-based compensation relates to grants of ordinary shares awarded to the Company’s eligible employees under the respective
plan terms. Awards are generally equity-settled; however, in limited circumstances awards may be settled in cash. The Company
recognized the following share-based compensation expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income, as an employee benefit
expense, for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020:
Equity-
settled Cash-settled Total
2021
Share-based compensation expense 207 2 209
2020
Share-based compensation expense 578 9 587
At December 31, 2021, the total carrying amount of the liabilities in respect of the cash settlement elements and dividend equivalents
of the respective awards was SAR 17 (2020: SAR 4) and the intrinsic value of such liabilities, which had vested during the year, was
SAR 3 (2020: SAR 22).
Awards granted during the year relate to the Long-Term Incentive Plan for Executives (“ELTIP”) and the Long-Term Incentive Plan for
Management (“MLTIP”), the Long-Term Incentive Plan for certain other eligible employees (“LTIP”) and the Employee Share Purchase
Plan (“ESPP”).
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 215
[TABLE DATA]
1,661
1,957
1,880
21,510
65
27,073
52,805
195,766
21,210
3,574
–
20,119
6,105
299,579
|  |
207 | 2 | 209
[Page 218]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
17. Share-based compensation continued
Awards for all plans were granted for nil consideration, with the exception for ESPP, which were granted at a discount of 20% to the
fair market value of the shares at each purchase date. The fair values of awards granted were determined by reference to the market
values of the Company’s ordinary shares on the grant dates for equity-settled awards and at the Consolidated Balance Sheet date for
cash-settled awards. Where applicable, the fair values of the awards subject to market-based performance measures were estimated
using Monte Carlo Simulation models.
Number of Weighted
shares average fair
granted (in value per
millions) share (SAR)
2021
ESPP 14 35.28
ELTIP 2 32.59
MLTIP 3 34.50
LTIP 1 35.50
2020
ELTIP 2 33.77
MLTIP 3 33.35
The number of awards settled in shares during the year in relation to the employee share plans was 13.7 million (2020: 15.2 million).
Participants in the plans (other than the ESPP) are entitled to dividend equivalents, if dividends are paid to ordinary shareholders,
during the vesting period. Such dividend equivalents will be paid in cash on vesting of the awards. Accordingly, no adjustment for
expected dividends during the vesting period was made in determining the fair value of the awards. Participants in all plans become
entitled to dividends only after shares have been issued to the participants as the registered holders.
The vesting of ELTIP is dependent on the achievement of (a) specified non-market and market-based performance measures over a
three-year performance period, and (b) required service, except for certain qualifying leavers. Upon vesting, 50% of the vested awards
are required to be held by the participants for an additional two years, except for certain qualifying leavers. The awards will be settled
with the participants in shares on vesting.
The vesting of MLTIP is dependent on the participants achieving (a) specified individual performance targets over a one-year performance
period, and (b) required service, except for certain qualifying leavers. The awards are subject to graded vesting. 25% of the awards will
vest after the end of the performance period, and the remaining 75% of the awards will vest in equal installments over three years from
thereon, provided that the participants continue to meet the required service condition. The awards will be settled with the participants in
shares on vesting, except for certain qualifying participants who will receive cash-settlement.
The vesting of LTIP is dependent only on the participants achieving required service, except for certain qualifying leavers. The
awards are subject to graded vesting. 25% of the awards will vest immediately, and the remaining 75% of the awards will vest in
equal installments over three years, provided that the participants continue to meet the required service condition. The awards
will be settled with the participants in shares on vesting, except for certain qualifying participants who will receive cash-settlement.
Shares issued under the ESPP vest immediately but are required to be held until the earlier of one year from the date of issuance
or cessation of employment.
216 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
|
14 | 35.28
2 | 32.59
3 | 34.50
1 | 35.50
[Page 219]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
18. Other reserves
Share of other
comprehensive income
(loss) of joint ventures
and associates
Post- Foreign
Currency Investments employment Share-based Cash flow currency Cash flow
translation in securities benefit compensation hedges and translation hedges and
differences at FVOCI obligations reserve other gains (losses) other Total
January 1, 2020 (585) 3,342 – 31 (427) 191 (476) 2,076
Current period change 2,768 156 – 556 (300) 1,116 (566) 3,730
Remeasurement loss – – (16,361) – – – – (16,361)
Transfer to retained
earnings – – 7,722 (530) – – – 7,192
Tax effect – 1,936 7,395 – – – – 9,331
Less: amounts related to
non-controlling
interests (991) (78) 1,244 – – (285) – (110)
December 31, 2020 1,192 5,356 – 57 (727) 1,022 (1,042) 5,858
Current period change (2,798) 440 – 207 323 (440) 23 (2,245)
Remeasurement gain – – 16,055 – – – 270 16,325
Transfer to retained
earnings – – (9,392) (125) – – (270) (9,787)
Tax effect – (145) (5,865) – – – – (6,010)
Less: amounts related to
non-controlling
interests 1,042 118 (798) – 7 151 – 520
December 31, 2021 (564) 5,769 – 139 (397) 733 (1,019) 4,661
19. Non-controlling interests
Summarized consolidated financial information (100%) for each subsidiary that has non-controlling interests that are material to Saudi
Aramco are set out below. The amounts disclosed for each subsidiary are before inter-company eliminations:
Summarized Balance Sheet
At December 31
2021 2020
S-Oil S-Oil
SABIC AOPC1 Corporation SABIC Corporation
Current assets 107,509 229 26,483 81,032 17,244
Non-current assets 270,960 100,065 36,341 278,939 41,372
Total assets 378,469 100,294 62,824 359,971 58,616
Current liabilities 49,864 851 26,543 37,709 22,696
Non-current liabilities 60,844 – 11,145 67,891 12,880
Total liabilities 110,708 851 37,688 105,600 35,576
Net assets 267,761 99,443 25,136 254,371 23,040
Accumulated non-controlling interest 106,909 48,728 9,647 99,603 8,842
1. On June 17, 2021, the Company sold a 49% equity interest in Aramco Oil Pipelines Company (“AOPC”), a newly formed wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, to EIG Pearl Holdings
S.à r.l. For details see Note 34.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 217
[TABLE DATA]
(2,798) | 440 | – | 207 | 323 | (440) | 23
– | – | 16,055 | – | – | – | 270
– | – | (9,392) | (125) | – | – | (270)
– | (145) | (5,865) | – | – | – | –
1,042 | 118 | (798) | – | 7 | 151 | –
(564) | 5,769 | – | 139 | (397) | 733 | (1,019)
(2,245)
16,325
(9,787)
(6,010)
520
4,661
107,509 | 229 | 26,483
270,960 | 100,065 | 36,341
378,469 | 100,294 | 62,824
|  |
49,864 | 851 | 26,543
60,844 | – | 11,145
110,708 | 851 | 37,688
|  |
267,761 | 99,443 | 25,136
|  |
106,909 | 48,728 | 9,647
[Page 220]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
19. Non-controlling interests continued
Summarized Statement of Comprehensive Income
Year ended December 31
2021 2020
S-Oil S-Oil
SABIC AOPC1 Corporation SABIC1 Corporation
Revenue and other income 174,885 5,301 89,993 66,678 53,482
Net income (loss) 25,890 4,451 4,463 (2,426) (2,940)
Other comprehensive income (loss) 199 – (1,988) (197) 1,336
Total comprehensive income (loss) 26,089 4,451 2,475 (2,623) (1,604)
Net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests 12,691 2,181 1,712 (150) (1,128)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests2 (6,687) – (145) (704) (14)
1. Amounts included are for the period from the date of sale of a non-controlling equity interest in a subsidiary or acquisition of a non-wholly owned subsidiary.
2. AOPC is expected to make quarterly distributions to its ordinary shareholders from available cash commencing in 2022. Current assets of AOPC as at December 31, 2021 mainly include
cash received from the Company in respect of quarterly volume-based tariff.
Summarized Statement of Cash Flows
Year ended December 31
2021 2020
S-Oil S-Oil
SABIC AOPC1 Corporation SABIC1 Corporation
Cash flows from operating activities 39,225 229 5,693 12,079 5,852
Cash flows from investing activities (5,760) – 180 (2,827) (1,974)
Cash flows from financing activities (25,219) – (2,318) (3,611) (2,279)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 8,246 229 3,555 5,641 1,599
1. Amounts included are for the period from the date of sale of a non-controlling equity interest in a subsidiary or acquisition of a non-wholly owned subsidiary.
218 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
|  |
174,885 | 5,301 | 89,993
|  |
25,890 | 4,451 | 4,463
|  |
199 | – | (1,988)
|  |
26,089 | 4,451 | 2,475
|  |
12,691 | 2,181 | 1,712
|  |
(6,687) | – | (145)
|  |
39,225 | 229 | 5,693
|  |
(5,760) | – | 180
|  |
(25,219) | – | (2,318)
|  |
8,246 | 229 | 3,555
[Page 221]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
20. Borrowings
2021 2020
Non-current:
Deferred consideration 188,723 217,231
Commercial borrowings 52,280 55,954
Debentures 98,449 104,425
Sukuk 34,560 12,420
Lease liabilities 38,108 43,567
Other financing arrangements 24,251 3,323
436,371 436,920
Current:
Deferred consideration 33,544 18,636
Short-term bank financing 17,351 60,085
Commercial borrowings 10,556 10,197
Debentures 3,750 –
Sukuk 266 231
Lease liabilities 9,083 10,008
74,550 99,157
2021 2020
Finance costs:
Conventional borrowings 8,490 7,391
Lease liabilities 2,138 2,089
Shari’a compliant financial instruments 980 645
Unwinding of discount (Note 22) 450 439
12,058 10,564
Borrowing facilities
Saudi Aramco has entered into long-term financing arrangements with various lenders. These financing arrangements limit the
creation of additional liens and/or financing obligations and certain of these arrangements are secured over certain property,
plant and equipment, and other non-current assets of Saudi Aramco with a total carrying value of SAR 94,379. Additionally,
certain financing arrangements require compliance by Saudi Aramco with covenants to maintain certain financial and other
conditions. Saudi Aramco has complied with these covenants throughout the reporting period.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 219
[TABLE DATA]
188,723
52,280
98,449
34,560
38,108
24,251
436,371
33,544
17,351
10,556
3,750
266
9,083
74,550
8,490
2,138
980
450
12,058
[Page 222]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
20. Borrowings continued
Details of financing facilities at December 31 are included as follows:
Total facility Total undrawn
Note 2021 2020 2021 2020
Conventional:
Deferred consideration a 222,267 235,867 – –
Revolving credit facilities b 49,541 39,210 44,205 32,378
Commercial borrowings c 31,695 38,239 1,909 881
Short-term borrowings d 20,419 74,213 12,844 24,203
Export credit agencies e 2,835 7,691 – –
Public Investment Fund f 1,826 5,591 – –
Debentures g 101,396 106,313 – –
Other financing arrangements h 24,264 3,322 – –
Shari'a compliant:
Sukuk i 61,174 39,844 26,250 26,250
Murabaha j 31,114 30,064 11,625 11,250
Saudi Industrial Development Fund k 4,624 5,036 115 –
Ijarah/Procurement l 3,949 3,934 618 –
Wakala m 1,294 1,721 241 –
556,398 591,045 97,807 94,962
Conventional facilities
(a) Deferred consideration
Deferred consideration represents the amount payable to PIF for the SABIC acquisition. The amount is payable over several
installments from August 2020 to April 2028, pursuant to a seller loan provided by PIF (Note 35 (a)(i)). On January 24, 2022, Saudi
Aramco, in agreement with PIF, made a partial prepayment of SAR 28,579 ($7,621), which has reduced the principal amounts of
two promissory notes by SAR 26,250 ($7,000) and SAR 3,750 ($1,000) that were payable on or before April 7, 2024 and April 7, 2026,
respectively (Note 40).
(b) Revolving credit facilities
At December 31, 2021, Saudi Aramco held the following facilities that total SAR 49,541 (2020: SAR 39,210):
(i) On June 9, 2020, the Company amended and restated certain agreements with respect to its USD denominated conventional
five-year revolving credit facility equivalent to SAR 22,500 ($6,000) to incorporate a SAR 7,500 ($2,000) swing line sublimit facility
in support of the Company’s establishment of a U.S. commercial paper program. The swing line makes up part of the revolving
credit facility and the entire facility remained unutilized as of December 31, 2021. In addition, the Company maintains a 364-day
USD denominated facility equivalent to SAR 3,750 ($1,000) along with SAR denominated Islamic Murabaha facilities comprising
a five-year facility of SAR 7,500 and a 364-day facility of SAR 3,750 (Note 20(j)). The facilities were established in March 2015 and
are expected to be renewed in 2022.
(ii) Saudi Aramco maintains facilities of SAR 23,291 (2020: SAR 12,960), consisting of revolving credit facilities of SAR 22,593 ($6,025),
and a letter of credit facility of SAR 698 ($186) for working capital requirements and to support trading activities. The remaining
revolving credit facilities are executed with a group of foreign and domestic banks for general corporate purposes and working
capital requirements.
(c) Commercial borrowings
Saudi Aramco has commercial and other facility agreements with a number of banks. The facilities are primarily repayable in
12 to 36 installments on a semi-annual basis from November 2008 to September 2045. Commission is payable on amounts drawn that
are primarily calculated at a market rate plus a margin.
(i) In 2021, Saudi Aramco entered into certain new conventional borrowing facilities aggregating to SAR 3,296. The facilities' tenors
range from seven years to 24 years and these are repayable in semi-annual installments from August 2025 to September 2045.
The total amount recognized under these facilities as at December 31, 2021 was SAR 1,562.
(ii) In 2020, Saudi Aramco refinanced an existing commercial facility having a balance of SAR 345 ($92). Under the refinancing
agreement, the facility of SAR 375 ($100) is repayable semi-annually in 34 installments, from March 2020 to November 2036.
Commission is payable on amounts drawn at a market rate, starting March 2020.
220 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
222,267
49,541
31,695
20,419
2,835
1,826
101,396
24,264
61,174
31,114
4,624
3,949
1,294
556,398
–
44,205
1,909
12,844
–
–
–
–
26,250
11,625
115
618
241
97,807
[Page 223]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
20. Borrowings continued
(d) Short-term borrowings
Saudi Aramco has facilities with a number of banks for short-term borrowings, with each having a maturity period of less than
one year and which incur interest at a market rate plus a margin.
(i) On May 7, 2020, the Company entered into a SAR 37,500 ($10,000) one-year term loan facility with various financial institutions
for general corporate purposes. In 2021, the Company exercised its option to extend the facility maturity date by 364 days to
May 5, 2022. However, the loan amount was fully repaid on November 15, 2021 and the facility agreement was terminated.
(ii) In 2020, Saudi Aramco entered into debt factoring arrangements in relation to certain intercompany receivables, repayable over
a four-month period and on market terms. A total of SAR 4,398 was outstanding at December 31, 2021 (2020: SAR 3,285).
(e) Export credit agencies
Saudi Aramco has facility agreements with a number of export credit agencies. The facilities are repayable in 23 to 28 installments on
a semi-annual basis, from November 18, 2008 to December 20, 2025. Commission is payable on amounts drawn and is calculated at a
market rate plus a margin.
(f) Public Investment Fund
Saudi Aramco has facility agreements with the PIF. The facilities are repayable in 14 to 28 installments on a semi-annual basis from
November 18, 2008 to December 20, 2025. Commission is payable on amounts drawn and is calculated at a market rate plus a margin.
(g) Debentures
(i) On April 16, 2019, the Company issued five tranches of USD denominated unsecured notes aggregating to an equivalent
of SAR 45,000 ($12,000) and consisting of three-year maturities for SAR 3,750 ($1,000) with a coupon rate of 2.75%, five-year
maturities for SAR 7,500 ($2,000) with a coupon rate of 2.875%, 10-year maturities for SAR 11,250 ($3,000) with a coupon rate of
3.5%, 20-year maturities for SAR 11,250 ($3,000) with a coupon rate of 4.25%, and 30-year maturities for SAR 11,250 ($3,000) with
a coupon rate of 4.375%. The notes were issued and sold in accordance with Rule 144A/Regulation S under the U.S. Securities Act
of 1933, as amended. Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on April 16 and October 16. The notes are listed on the London
Stock Exchange’s Regulated Market and the proceeds were for general corporate purposes. At initial recognition, the Company
recorded an amount of SAR 44,460 ($11,856) for the issuance proceeds, net of discounts and estimated transaction costs.
On November 24, 2020, the Company issued a series of USD denominated unsecured notes under the same program, aggregating
to an equivalent of SAR 30,000 ($8,000), consisting of maturity dates of three years to 50 years paid at the end of the maturity date
with coupon rates ranging from 1.25% to 3.50%. At initial recognition, the Company recorded an amount of SAR 29,625 ($7,900)
for the issuance proceeds, net of discounts.
(ii) Certain debentures denominated in USD have been issued in capital markets with fixed and variable interest rates and with
maturities from 2027 to 2040.
(iii) Debentures denominated in South Korean Won have been issued in capital markets with interest rates ranging from 1.65% to
3.53% and with maturities from 2022 to 2030.
(iv) In November 2020, SABIC issued a 10-year and 30-year USD denominated $500 bond each, equivalent to a total of SAR 3,750 ($1,000).
These bonds are unsecured and carry coupon rates of 2.15% and 3% for those maturing in 10 and 30 years, respectively. Both bonds
are issued in accordance with Rule 144A/Regulation S offering requirements under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended. These
bonds are listed on the Irish Stock Exchange (“Euronext Dublin”) and the 30-year bond is dual listed on the Taipei Exchange in Taiwan.
The proceeds were used for general purpose and refinancing maturing debt.
(v) In October 2018, SABIC issued a five-year and a 10-year USD denominated $1,000 bond equivalent to a total of SAR 7,500 ($2,000).
These bonds are unsecured and carry coupon rates of 4% and 4.5%, respectively. The bonds are issued in accordance with the
Rule 144A/Regulation S offering requirements under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The bonds are listed on the
Euronext Dublin and the proceeds were used for refinancing maturing debt.
Discounts and transaction costs are amortized using the effective interest method and are reflected as finance costs in the
Consolidated Statement of Income.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 221
[Page 224]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
20. Borrowings continued
(h) Other financing arrangements
Other financing arrangements comprise borrowings from non-financial institutions under commercial terms.
On September 27, 2021, the Company entered into a financing arrangement with Air Products, ACWA Power and Air Products
Qudra relating to the Jazan Integrated Gasification Combined-Cycle (“IGCC”) power plant, an Air Separation Unit (“ASU”) and
certain ancillary assets. The transaction entailed creation of the Jazan Integrated Gasification and Power Company (“JIGPC”),
a limited liability company, with Saudi Aramco Power Company (“SAPCO”), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company owning 20%,
while Air Products, ACWA Power and Air Products Qudra own 46%, 25% and 9%, respectively (Note 35(b)(ii)). The total proceeds of
the transaction are SAR 44,063. Upon closing Saudi Aramco recognized an amount of SAR 21,226, representing the amount due to
the other shareholders of JIGPC, in relation to the first tranche of SAR 26,532 under the financing arrangement. The final tranche is
expected to be received during the fourth quarter of 2022. The total amount under the arrangement is repayable in monthly
installments, commencing from October 2021 to October 2046.
Shari'a compliant facilities
(i) Sukuk
A Sukuk is a financial instrument similar to a bond that complies with Islamic financing principles.
(i) On June 17, 2021, Saudi Aramco issued three tranches of USD denominated Sukuk trust certificates aggregating to an equivalent of
SAR 22,500 ($6,000) at par value with semi-annual payments on June 17 and December 17. The Shari’a compliant senior unsecured
facilities consist of three-year maturities for SAR 3,750 ($1,000) with a coupon rate of 0.946%, five-year maturities of SAR 7,500
($2,000) with a coupon rate of 1.602% and 10-year maturities of SAR 11,250 ($3,000) with a coupon rate of 2.694%. In accordance
with the terms of the Sukuk, 55% of the proceeds from issuance are structured as an Ijara and the remaining 45% are structured as
a Murabaha arrangement. The certificates were listed on the London Stock Exchange’s Regulated Market and sold in accordance
with Rule 144A/Regulation S under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The proceeds are for general corporate purposes
and the Sukuk mature between 2024 and 2031. At initial recognition, the Company recorded an amount of SAR 22,399 ($5,973)
for the issuance proceeds, net of estimated transaction costs.
(ii) On April 10, 2017, Saudi Aramco issued Sukuk for SAR 11,250 at par value as part of a SAR 37,500 program. The Sukuk issuance
provides a return based on Saudi Arabian Interbank Offered Rate (“SAIBOR”) plus a predetermined margin payable semi-annually
on April 10 and October 10. The Sukuk matures on April 10, 2024. In accordance with the terms of the Sukuk, 51% of the proceeds
from issuance are invested in Mudaraba assets and the remaining 49% are used in a Murabaha arrangement.
(iii) On October 9, 2011, Saudi Aramco issued Sukuk for SAR 2,344 at par value, with semi-annual repayments from December 20, 2014
to December 20, 2025 that provides a rate of return above SAIBOR. The Sukuk was structured as Istisnah for pre-construction and
Ijarah for post-construction of the project.
(j) Murabaha
Saudi Aramco has Murabaha Shari’a compliant Islamic facilities, aggregating to a total of SAR 31,114 (2020: SAR 30,064). These include
the unutilized SAR denominated Islamic Murabaha facilities held by the Company, comprising a five-year facility of SAR 7,500 and a
364-day facility of SAR 3,750 (Note 20(b)(i)). The facilities are repayable in 10 to 44 installments, on a semi-annual basis, from 2008
to 2030. Commission is payable on amounts drawn and is calculated at a market rate plus a margin.
(k) Saudi Industrial Development Fund
Saudi Aramco has facility agreements with the Saudi Industrial Development Fund. The facilities bear no periodic financial charges
and borrowings are repayable in 14 to 34 installments, on a semi-annual basis, commencing from 2008 to 2035.
(i) In 2021, Saudi Aramco entered into a facility agreement with the Saudi Industrial Development Fund for an amount of SAR 1,200.
The facility was fully drawn as at December 31, 2021 and is repayable in semi-annual installments from 2026 to 2035.
(l) Ijarah/Procurement
Saudi Aramco has Procurement and Ijarah Shari’a compliant Islamic facility agreements with a number of banks. The facilities are
repayable in seven to 28 installments on a semi-annual basis, from November 2008 to May 2039.
(i) In 2021, Saudi Aramco entered into new Ijarah Shari’a compliant Islamic facility agreements aggregating to SAR 1,542. The facilities
are repayable in semi-annual installments from 2026 to 2039. The total amount recognized as at December 31, 2021 under these
facilities was SAR 926.
222 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 225]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
20. Borrowings continued
(m) Wakala
Saudi Aramco has Shari’a compliant Islamic facility agreements with a number of lenders. The facilities utilize a Wakala financing
structure which is an agency arrangement.
(i) In 2021, Saudi Aramco entered into a new Wakala facility agreement amounting to SAR 394. The facility is repayable in
semi-annual installments from 2026 to 2028. The total amount recognized as at December 31, 2021 was SAR 198.
(ii) In 2020, Saudi Aramco entered into a Wakala facility with semi-annual payment terms commencing from 2020 to 2036.
Commission is payable on amounts drawn and is primarily calculated at a market rate.
At the Consolidated Balance Sheet date, the carrying values of Saudi Aramco’s borrowings approximate their fair values.
The carrying amounts of borrowings, excluding lease liabilities and deferred consideration, at December 31 are as follows:
2021 2020
Conventional:
Revolving credit facilities 5,370 6,830
Commercial borrowings 29,787 34,478
Short-term borrowings 11,981 53,255
Export credit agencies 2,835 4,560
Public Investment Fund (Note 29(b)) 1,826 3,656
Debentures 102,199 104,425
Other financing arrangements 24,251 3,323
Shari'a compliant:
Sukuk 34,826 12,651
Murabaha 19,489 15,379
Saudi Industrial Development Fund (Note 29(b)) 4,511 3,855
Ijarah/Procurement 3,334 3,360
Wakala 1,054 863
241,463 246,635
Movements in unamortized transaction costs are as follows:
2021 2020
January 1 1,785 968
Additional transaction costs incurred 139 1,170
Less: amortization (319) (353)
December 31 1,605 1,785
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 223
[TABLE DATA]
5,370
29,787
11,981
2,835
1,826
102,199
24,251
34,826
19,489
4,511
3,334
1,054
241,463
1,785
139
(319)
1,605
[Page 226]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
20. Borrowings continued
Lease liabilities
Lease liabilities are effectively secured as the rights to the leased asset revert to the lessor in the event of default. The lessor has
ownership of the assets during the term of the contract and is typically responsible for the operation, insurance and maintenance
of the assets until termination of the underlying agreements. For certain leases, the lessor shall transfer its rights, title and interest in
the assets to the lessee on the last day of the agreements; for others, there are no further obligations on completion of agreements.
Performance guarantees are provided by the lessor under the terms of the agreements.
The total cash outflow for leases for the year ended December 31, 2021 was SAR 12,143 (2020: SAR 10,868). Expenses relating to
short-term and low value leases were recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 2021
and amounted to SAR 329 (2020: SAR 378) and SAR 403 (2020: SAR 278), respectively.
Maturities of borrowings and leases are as follows:
Later than
one year and Total Total
No later than no later than Later than contractual carrying
one year five years five years amount amount
2021
Borrowings – other than leases 71,989 295,106 216,161 583,256 463,730
Leases 10,823 23,696 21,994 56,513 47,191
82,812 318,802 238,155 639,769 510,921
2020
Borrowings – other than leases 101,505 244,553 242,929 588,987 482,502
Leases 11,228 26,051 23,854 61,133 53,575
112,733 270,604 266,783 650,120 536,077
The movement of borrowings is as follows:
Total
liabilities
from
Long-term Short-term Lease financing
borrowings borrowings liabilities activities
January 1, 2020 121,991 12,660 40,934 175,585
Cash flows (37,504) 46,084 (10,868) (2,288)
Debentures 36,815 – – 36,815
Non-cash changes:
Deferred Consideration 259,125 – – 259,125
Acquisition (Note 35) 37,592 1,179 6,552 45,323
Lease additions – – 16,705 16,705
Foreign exchange adjustment 1,023 60 193 1,276
Accretion of liabilities and others 3,375 102 59 3,536
December 31, 2020 422,417 60,085 53,575 536,077
Cash flows 12,406 (43,756) (12,143) (43,493)
Non-cash changes:
Other financing arrangements (Note 35 (b)(ii)) 8,146 – (7,333) 813
Lease additions – – 12,442 12,442
Foreign exchange adjustment (1,033) (35) (197) (1,265)
Accretion of liabilities and others 4,443 1,057 847 6,347
December 31, 2021 446,379 17,351 47,191 510,921
224 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
|  |  |
71,989 | 295,106 | 216,161 | 583,256
10,823 | 23,696 | 21,994 | 56,513
82,812 | 318,802 | 238,155 | 639,769
463,730
47,191
510,921
12,406 | (43,756) | (12,143)
|  |
8,146 | – | (7,333)
– | – | 12,442
(1,033) | (35) | (197)
4,443 | 1,057 | 847
446,379 | 17,351 | 47,191
(43,493)
813
12,442
(1,265)
6,347
510,921
[Page 227]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
21. Post-employment benefit obligations
Saudi Aramco sponsors or participates in several funded and unfunded defined benefit pension plans and other post-employment
benefit plans that provide pension, severance, death, medical and/or other benefits to substantially all of its employees primarily in the
Kingdom. The majority of the defined benefit plans for the Kingdom-based employees are governed under the Kingdom’s labor law,
applicable benefit plan laws of the USA, and/or Company policies. Benefits to employees of group companies are provided based on
local regulations and practices of the respective jurisdiction.
Retirement benefits for defined benefit pension plans are paid, primarily, in the form of lump sum payments upon retirement based
on final salary and length of service. Other post-employment benefits such as medical are used to cover retired employees and eligible
dependents of retirees for medical services in line with the plan policy documents.
At December 31, the net (asset) liability recognized for employee defined benefit plans in the Consolidated Balance Sheet is as follows:
2021 2020
Pension plans (1,384) 12,167
Medical and other post-employment benefit plans 42,113 42,040
Net benefit liability 40,729 54,207
The status of Saudi Aramco’s pension and other post-employment defined benefit plans is as follows:
Pension benefits Other benefits
2021 2020 2021 2020
Net benefit obligation by funding:
Present value of funded obligations 80,726 84,998 123,281 114,289
Fair value of plan assets (86,888) (78,328) (93,929) (82,629)
Benefit (surplus) deficit (6,162) 6,670 29,352 31,660
Present value of unfunded obligations 4,778 5,497 12,761 10,380
Net benefit (asset) liability (1,384) 12,167 42,113 42,040
Change in benefit obligations:
Benefit obligations, January 1 90,495 65,556 124,669 95,910
Current service cost 4,560 3,799 3,008 2,576
Interest cost 2,269 2,254 3,799 3,458
Past service (credit) cost (458) (465) 1,755 2,340
Remeasurement (4,065) 8,243 4,157 21,480
Plan participants’ contribution 56 75 – –
Benefits paid (5,861) (8,134) (2,396) (1,886)
Settlements (38) (386) – –
Acquisition (Note 35) – 19,651 – 975
Foreign currency translation and other (1,454) (98) 1,050 (184)
Benefit obligations, December 31 85,504 90,495 136,042 124,669
Change in plan assets:
Fair value of plan assets, January 1 (78,328) (67,156) (82,629) (73,136)
Interest income (2,295) (2,018) (2,749) (2,438)
Remeasurement (7,496) (6,214) (8,651) (7,148)
Employer contributions (5,130) (7,406) (2,288) (1,793)
Benefits paid 5,861 8,134 2,396 1,886
Settlements 38 386 – –
Acquisition (Note 35) – (4,077) – –
Foreign currency translation and other 462 23 (8) –
Fair value of plan assets, December 31 (86,888) (78,328) (93,929) (82,629)
Net benefit (asset) liability at December 31 (1,384) 12,167 42,113 42,040
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 225
[TABLE DATA]
(1,384)
42,113
40,729
80,726
(86,888)
(6,162)
4,778
(1,384)
90,495
4,560
2,269
(458)
(4,065)
56
(5,861)
(38)
–
(1,454)
85,504
(78,328)
(2,295)
(7,496)
(5,130)
5,861
38
–
462
(86,888)
(1,384)
123,281
(93,929)
29,352
12,761
42,113
124,669
3,008
3,799
1,755
4,157
–
(2,396)
–
–
1,050
136,042
(82,629)
(2,749)
(8,651)
(2,288)
2,396
–
–
(8)
(93,929)
42,113
[Page 228]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
21. Post-employment benefit obligations continued
The weighted average duration of the pension benefit obligations is 13 years at December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020. The
weighted average duration of the other benefit obligations is 21 years at December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020.
The components of net defined benefit cost, before tax, are primarily recognized in producing and manufacturing, and selling,
administrative and general expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Remeasurements are included in the Consolidated
Statement of Comprehensive Income. Net defined benefit cost and remeasurements for the years ended December 31 are as follows:
Pension benefits Other benefits
2021 2020 2021 2020
Amounts recognized in net income:
Current service cost 4,560 3,799 3,008 2,576
Past service (credit) cost (458) (465) 1,755 2,340
Net interest (income) cost (26) 236 1,050 1,020
Other – (8) – (15)
4,076 3,562 5,813 5,921
Amounts recognized in other comprehensive income:
Losses from changes in demographic assumptions 80 729 1,448 496
(Gains) losses from changes in financial assumptions (4,351) 7,728 2,004 13,203
Losses (gains) from changes in experience adjustments 206 (214) 705 7,781
Returns on plan assets (excluding interest income) (7,496) (6,214) (8,651) (7,148)
(11,561) 2,029 (4,494) 14,332
Net defined benefit (gain) loss before income taxes (7,485) 5,591 1,319 20,253
The present value of the defined benefit obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using
a number of assumptions, based in part on market conditions. Any changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying amount of
the defined benefit obligations.
The significant assumptions used to determine the present value of the defined benefit obligations for the years ended December 31
are as follows:
Pension benefits Other benefits
2021 2020 2021 2020
Discount rate 2.9% 2.6% 3.1% 3.0%
Salary growth rate 4.7% 4.8% – –
Annual average medical claim cost, in whole SAR 27,638 26,003
Health care participation rate 95.0% 90.0%
Assumed health care trend rates:
Cost-trend rate 7.0% 5.0%
Rate to which cost-trend is to decline 5.0% 5.0%
Year that the rate reaches the ultimate rate 2026 2021
All the above assumptions are reviewed and updated as necessary as part of the periodic actuarial valuation of the defined benefit
obligations.
Saudi Aramco determines the discount rate used to calculate the present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be
required to settle the post-employment benefit plan obligations. In determining the appropriate discount rate, Saudi Aramco considers
the interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds in the USA that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related
defined benefit obligation.
226 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
4,560
(458)
(26)
–
4,076
80
(4,351)
206
(7,496)
(11,561)
(7,485)
3,008
1,755
1,050
–
5,813
1,448
2,004
705
(8,651)
(4,494)
1,319
2.9%
4.7%
3.1%
–
27,638
95.0%
7.0%
5.0%
2026
[Page 229]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
21. Post-employment benefit obligations continued
Mortality assumptions are reviewed regularly and set based on actuarial advice in accordance with best practice and statistics,
adjusted to reflect the experience and improvements to longevity. Relevant life expectancies are as follows:
Saudi plans U.S. plans
Life expectancy at age: Male Female Male Female
50 31.8 34.4 35.5 37.3
60 23.4 25.5 26.3 27.7
60 (currently aged 40) 23.4 25.5 27.9 29.2
The salary growth rate assumption is based on a study of recent years’ salary experience and reflects management’s outlook for
future increases. The annual average medical claim cost assumption is based on medical costs incurred in external medical providers,
on behalf of the Company’s employees and retirees. The health care participation rate considers the historical participation rate,
amongst others, derived from the best available historical data. The assumed health care cost-trend rates reflect Saudi Aramco’s
historical experience and management’s expectations regarding future trends.
The sensitivity of the overall defined benefit obligations to changes in the principal assumptions, keeping all other assumptions
constant, is presented below. The sensitivity analysis may not be representative of an actual change in the defined benefit obligations
as it is unlikely that changes in assumptions would occur in isolation from one another.
Change in assumption Impact on obligation 2021 2020
Ultimate health care cost-trend rates Increase by 0.5% Increase by 14,715 13,485
Decrease by 0.5% Decrease by (12,795) (11,726)
Discount rate – other benefits Increase by 0.5% Decrease by (12,896) (12,311)
Decrease by 0.5% Increase by 14,993 14,359
Discount rate – pension benefits Increase by 0.5% Decrease by (5,948) (6,146)
Decrease by 0.5% Increase by 6,319 6,818
Salary growth rate Increase by 0.5% Increase by 3,210 2,974
Decrease by 0.5% Decrease by (3,754) (3,364)
Annual average medical claim cost Increase by 5% Increase by 6,240 5,903
Decrease by 5% Decrease by (6,240) (5,903)
Life expectancy Increase by 1 year Increase by 6,090 5,880
Decrease by 1 year Decrease by (6,109) (5,914)
Health care participation rate Increase by 5% Increase by 1,984 1,823
Decrease by 5% Decrease by (2,033) (1,875)
Plan assets consisted of the following:
2021 2020
Cash 5,584 5,816
Time deposits – 8
Equity instruments 48,703 41,710
Investment funds 72,031 61,947
Bonds 52,324 50,516
Sukuk (Shari’a compliant) 2,175 960
180,817 160,957
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 227
[TABLE DATA]
31.8 | 34.4
23.4 | 25.5
23.4 | 25.5
35.5 | 37.3
26.3 | 27.7
27.9 | 29.2
14,715
(12,795)
(12,896)
14,993
(5,948)
6,319
3,210
(3,754)
6,240
(6,240)
6,090
(6,109)
1,984
(2,033)
5,584
–
48,703
72,031
52,324
2,175
180,817
[Page 230]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
21. Post-employment benefit obligations continued
Plan assets are administered under the oversight of the Company or one of its subsidiaries and managed by independent trustees or
separate entities, in a manner consistent with fiduciary obligations and principles, acting in the best interest of plan participants. The
objectives of the plans are to maximize investment returns consistent with prudent risk over a long-term investment horizon in order
to secure retiree benefits and minimize corporate funding. All plan assets are held separately, solely to pay retiree benefits. Saudi
Aramco has no rights to plan assets. Funded Saudi plans have the right to transfer assets held in excess of the plan’s defined benefit
obligation to another funded Saudi plan. The right to transfer such assets is solely in respect of amounts held in excess of the plan’s
defined benefit obligations and solely to plans with defined benefit obligations exceeding the value of assets held.
Through its post-employment benefit plans, Saudi Aramco is exposed to a number of risks including asset volatility, changes in
bond yields, inflation and life expectancy. Investment risk is minimized through diversification of investments among fixed income,
equity, and alternative asset classes. Asset allocation is determined by an asset liability modeling study. The target asset allocation
is, approximately, 36% (2020: 36%) equity instruments, 31% (2020: 31%) debt instruments, and 33% (2020: 33%) alternative assets.
Inflation risk is partially offset by equities inflation and life expectancy risk is borne by Saudi Aramco.
Plan assets include transferable securities with a fair value of SAR 7,192 (2020: SAR 5,724) in the Company and its affiliated entities.
Employer contributions to defined benefit plans are estimated to be SAR 6,672 in 2022. While the Saudi plans are generally not governed
by regulatory minimum funding requirements, the funding objective is to reach full funding of the larger plans only. Saudi Aramco pays
annual contributions equal to benefit payments. Asset outperformance is expected to meet the shortfall between assets and the assessed
liabilities within a reasonable period. Funding for the U.S. plans sponsored by Aramco Shared Benefit Company, a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Company, is recommended by the actuary in order to meet Saudi Aramco’s funding strategy to meet benefit plan
expenses using applicable U.S. plan funding rules. Other plans follow local regulation or contractual obligations to meet minimum
funding requirements.
In addition to the above plans, Saudi Aramco maintains or participates in defined contribution plans for which Saudi Aramco’s legal
or constructive obligation is limited to the contributions. The costs of the defined contribution plans, which are included principally
within producing and manufacturing, and selling, administrative and general expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income,
are SAR 1,634 and SAR 1,372 for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively (Note 26).
22. Provisions and other liabilities
Asset
retirement Environmental Other Total
January 1, 2020 13,716 937 1,332 15,985
Acquisition – – 5,093 5,093
Revision to estimate 2,485 45 194 2,724
Additional provisions 744 83 544 1,371
Unwinding of discount (Note 20) 411 23 5 439
Amounts charged against provisions (17) (148) (239) (404)
December 31, 2020 17,339 940 6,929 25,208
Revision to estimate 154 (75) 75 154
Additional provisions 368 4 345 717
Unwinding of discount (Note 20) 446 4 – 450
Amounts charged against provisions (11) (49) (225) (285)
December 31, 2021 18,296 824 7,124 26,244
Asset retirement provisions relate to the future plugging and abandonment of oil and natural gas wells and the decommissioning of
certain Downstream assets. The environmental provision is for the remediation of ground water and soil contamination. Payments to
settle these provisions will occur on an ongoing basis and will continue over the lives of the operating assets, which can exceed 50
years for the time when it is necessary to abandon oil and natural gas wells. The amount and timing of settlement in respect of these
provisions are uncertain and dependent on various factors that are not always within management’s control. Other includes non-
current payables, financial liabilities for options and forward contracts, provisions and other obligations.
228 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
154 | (75) | 75
368 | 4 | 345
446 | 4 | –
(11) | (49) | (225)
18,296 | 824 | 7,124
154
717
450
(285)
26,244
[Page 231]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
23. Trade and other payables
2021 2020
Trade payables 55,325 36,595
Accrued materials and services 37,509 36,726
Amounts due to related parties (Note 29(b)) 17,678 9,540
Employee related payables 8,801 6,800
Other 5,376 4,079
124,689 93,740
24. Revenue
2021 2020
Revenue from contracts with customers 1,335,391 771,246
Movement between provisional and final prices 5,299 (7,344)
Other revenue 6,240 4,207
1,346,930 768,109
Other revenue:
Services provided to:
Government, semi-Government and other entities with Government ownership or control (Note 29(a)) 1,061 953
Third parties 814 675
Joint ventures and associates (Note 29(a)) 683 825
Freight 1,474 431
Other 2,208 1,323
6,240 4,207
Revenue from contracts with customers is measured at a transaction price agreed under the contract and the payment is due within
10 to 120 days from the invoice date depending on specific terms of the contract.
Transaction prices are not adjusted for the time value of money, as Saudi Aramco does not have any contracts where the period
between the transfer of product to the customer and payment by the customer exceeds one year.
Disaggregation of revenue from contracts with customers
Saudi Aramco’s revenue from contracts with customers according to product type and source is as follows:
2021
Upstream Downstream Corporate Total
Crude oil 600,673 60,208 – 660,881
Refined and chemical products – 607,771 – 607,771
Natural gas and NGLs 49,956 3,992 – 53,948
Metal products – 12,791 – 12,791
Revenue from contracts with customers 650,629 684,762 – 1,335,391
Movement between provisional and final prices 5,026 273 – 5,299
Other revenue 411 4,342 1,487 6,240
External revenue 656,066 689,377 1,487 1,346,930
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 229
[TABLE DATA]
55,325
37,509
17,678
8,801
5,376
124,689
1,335,391
5,299
6,240
1,346,930
1,061
814
683
1,474
2,208
6,240
600,673 | 60,208 | – | 660,881
– | 607,771 | – | 607,771
49,956 | 3,992 | – | 53,948
– | 12,791 | – | 12,791
650,629 | 684,762 | – | 1,335,391
|  |  |
5,026 | 273 | – | 5,299
411 | 4,342 | 1,487 | 6,240
656,066 | 689,377 | 1,487 | 1,346,930
[Page 232]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
24. Revenue continued
2020
Upstream Downstream Corporate Total
Crude oil 377,094 31,400 – 408,494
Refined and chemical products – 314,066 – 314,066
Natural gas and NGLs 40,684 2,287 – 42,971
Metal products – 5,715 – 5,715
Revenue from contracts with customers 417,778 353,468 – 771,246
Movement between provisional and final prices (7,286) (58) – (7,344)
Other revenue 464 2,377 1,366 4,207
External revenue 410,956 355,787 1,366 768,109
Revenue from contracts with customers includes local sales at Kingdom regulated prices as follows:
2021 2020
Crude oil 2,829 2,749
Refined and chemical products 62,262 44,620
Natural gas and NGLs 14,452 11,810
79,543 59,179
25. Purchases
2021 2020
Refined and chemical products 226,649 122,011
Crude oil 93,418 47,911
NGL and other products 32,310 11,194
352,377 181,116
Purchases primarily consist of refined products, chemicals, crude oil and NGL purchased from third parties for use in Downstream
operations and to meet demand for products in the Kingdom when it exceeds Saudi Aramco’s production of the relevant product.
Saudi Aramco also purchases products from third parties in certain markets where it is more cost effective compared to procuring
them from other business units.
26. Employee benefit expense
2021 2020
Salaries and wages 38,389 37,396
Social security costs 2,627 2,426
Post-retirement benefits (Note 21):
Defined benefit plans 9,889 9,483
Defined contribution plans 1,634 1,372
Share-based compensation (Note 17) 209 587
52,748 51,264
230 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
2,829
62,262
14,452
79,543
226,649
93,418
32,310
352,377
38,389
2,627
9,889
1,634
209
52,748
[Page 233]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
27. Finance and other income
2021 2020
Interest income on time deposits and loans receivable 795 1,817
Investment income 610 954
Dividend income from investments in securities 369 382
Gain on derivative transactions and others 13 29
1,787 3,182
28. Payments to the Government by Saudi Arabian Oil Company
2021 2020
Income taxes (Note 8(c)) 141,699 72,582
Royalties 138,999 82,958
Dividends 276,335 257,246
29. Related party transactions
(a) Transactions
2021 2020
Joint ventures:
Revenue from sales 23,003 14,393
Other revenue (Note 24) 124 72
Interest income 105 98
Purchases 22,466 8,719
Service expenses 11 11
Associates:
Revenue from sales 65,355 32,580
Other revenue (Note 24) 559 753
Interest income 135 120
Purchases 57,214 28,451
Service expenses 150 199
Lease expenses 188 169
Government, semi-Government and other entities with Government ownership or control:
Revenue from sales 17,644 24,866
Other income related to sales 154,828 93,982
Other revenue (Note 24) 1,061 953
Purchases 73,091 10,384
Service expenses 634 454
Lease expenses 461 469
Goods are purchased and sold according to supply agreements in force. Note 33 includes additional information on loans to joint
ventures and associates.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 231
[TABLE DATA]
795
610
369
13
1,787
141,699
138,999
276,335
23,003
124
105
22,466
11
65,355
559
135
57,214
150
188
17,644
154,828
1,061
73,091
634
461
[Page 234]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
29. Related party transactions continued
(b) Balances
2021 2020
Joint ventures:
Other assets and receivables (Note 9) 5,943 6,368
Trade receivables 4,755 3,210
Interest receivable 233 128
Trade and other payables (Note 23) 6,803 3,986
Associates:
Other assets and receivables (Note 9) 6,813 7,395
Trade receivables 14,794 8,415
Trade and other payables (Note 23) 7,916 3,784
Borrowings 15 15
Government, semi-Government and other entities with Government ownership or control:
Other assets and receivables (Note 9) 509 540
Trade receivables 3,056 1,429
Due from the Government (Note 13) 41,317 28,895
Trade and other payables (Note 23) 2,959 1,770
Borrowings 229,525 243,378
Sales to and receivables from Government, semi-Government and other entities with Government ownership or control are made
on specific terms within the relevant regulatory framework in the Kingdom.
(c) Compensation of key management personnel
Key management personnel of Saudi Aramco included directors and senior executive management. The compensation paid
or payable to key management for services is shown below:
2021 2020
Short-term employee benefits 75 59
Post-employment benefits 31 29
Other long-term benefits 30 23
Termination benefits – 17
136 128
(d) Other transactions with key management personnel
Other than as set out in Note 29(c), there were no reportable transactions between Saudi Aramco and members of key management
personnel or their close family members during the year ended December 31, 2021 (2020: nil).
232 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
5,943
4,755
233
6,803
6,813
14,794
7,916
15
509
3,056
41,317
2,959
229,525
75
31
30
–
136
[Page 235]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
30. Derivative instruments and hedging activities
Saudi Aramco uses interest rate swap contracts to manage exposure to interest rate risk mainly resulting from borrowings. These
hedges are designated as cash flow hedges. Saudi Aramco also engages in hedging activities through the use of currency forward
contracts in relation to firm commitments under procurement contracts. These hedges are designated as fair value hedges. Further,
Saudi Aramco uses short-term commodity swap contracts to manage exposure to price fluctuations.
The notional amounts of currency forward contracts and interest rate swap contracts designated as hedging instruments and
outstanding commodity swap contracts are as follows:
2021 2020
Interest rate swaps 11,055 12,075
Currency forward contracts 7,512 9,780
Commodity swap contracts 35,115 19,894
53,682 41,749
31. Non-cash investing and financing activities
Investing and financing activities during 2021 include additions to right-of-use assets of SAR 12,270 (2020: SAR 16,278), asset
retirement provisions of SAR 355 (2020: SAR 2,786), proceeds from the JIGPC financing arrangement net of the ASU purchase
consideration of SAR 8,146 (Note 35(b)(ii)) and equity awards issued to employees of SAR 52 (Note 17) (2020: SAR 486). In addition,
investing and financing activities during 2020 include the acquisition of SABIC for deferred consideration of SAR 259,125 (Note 35).
32. Commitments
(a) Capital commitments
Capital expenditures contracted for but not yet incurred were SAR 159,145 and SAR 153,326 at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
In addition, leases contracted for but not yet commenced were SAR 10,309 and SAR 7,990 at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
(b) Sadara
In March 2020, the Company and The Dow Chemical Company (“Dow”) equally committed to comply with the Ministry of Energy
feedstock agreement to support the development of Chemical Value Parks in the Kingdom with an amount of SAR 375. The first
payment of nearly SAR 38 will be deposited within one month from the date of supplying Sadara with additional ethane. The
remaining funds will be deposited over nine years at SAR 38 annually. Saudi Aramco’s commitment of SAR 188 is outstanding at
December 31, 2021.
(c) International Maritime Industries Company (“IMIC”)
In 2017, Saudi Aramco Development Company (“SADCO”), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, Maritime Offshore Limited, a
wholly owned subsidiary of Lamprell plc, Bahri and Korea Shipbuilding and Offshore Engineering (“KSOE”) formed a company, IMIC,
in which SADCO owns 40.1%, Maritime Offshore Limited owns 20%, Bahri owns 19.9% and KSOE owns 20%. The principal activities
of IMIC are the development, operation, and maintenance of a maritime yard under construction by the Government, as well as, the
design, manufacture, maintenance and repair of ships and rigs. The maritime yard will be divided into four main operational zones
and completion of the construction of the individual zones will vary, with the final yard completion and handover expected by the
end of 2023. SADCO has committed to fund IMIC up to SAR 1,053 through equity contributions. At December 31, 2021, SAR 766
(2020: SAR 638) has been drawn down by IMIC.
(d) Saudi Aramco Rowan Offshore Drilling Company (“ARO Drilling”)
In 2017, SADCO and Rowan Rex Limited formed a company, ARO Drilling (Note 38), to provide offshore drilling services to the
Company. In 2018, Mukamala Oil Field Services Limited (“MOFSL”) was incorporated as a subsidiary of SADCO and all the investment
and related commitments of ARO Drilling were transferred to MOFSL by way of a Novation Agreement. MOFSL has committed to
invest SAR 2,719 through equity and shareholder loans, of which SAR 2,453 has been drawn down at December 31, 2021. In addition,
the Company has committed to lease 20 offshore rigs over a 10-year period beginning in 2022 for an estimated value of SAR 35,418.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 233
[TABLE DATA]
11,055
7,512
35,115
53,682
[Page 236]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
32. Commitments continued
(e) Saudi Aramco Nabors Drilling Company (“SANAD”)
In 2017, SADCO and Nabors International Netherlands BV formed a company, SANAD (Note 38), to provide onshore drilling services to
the Company. In 2018, MOFSL was incorporated as a subsidiary of SADCO and all the investment and related commitments of SANAD
were transferred to MOFSL by way of a Novation Agreement. The Company has committed to lease 50 onshore rigs over a 10-year
period beginning in 2022 for an estimated value of SAR 25,181.
(f) Arabian Rig Manufacturing Company (‘‘ARM’’)
In June 2018, SADCO and NOV Downhole Eurasia Limited formed a company, ARM (Note 39), to provide onshore land drilling
manufacturing, equipment and services to SANAD and the Middle East and North Africa region. The Company committed to invest
SAR 225, of which, SAR 66 is invested at December 31, 2021. In addition, SADCO has guaranteed the purchase of 50 onshore rigs
over a 10-year period beginning in 2022 for an estimated value of SAR 6,741, and has the option to cancel the onshore rig orders
for a maximum financial exposure of SAR 1,358.
(g) Saudi Engines Manufacturing Company (‘‘SEMCO’’)
On May 19, 2019, SADCO, Korea Shipbuilding and Offshore Engineering (“KSOE”), and the Saudi Arabian Industrial Investment
Company (“Dussur”) entered into an agreement to form a company to set up an engine manufacturing and aftersales facility in the
Kingdom. A limited liability company, SEMCO, was formed on November 16, 2020 by SADCO, which owns 55% of the company, while
KSOE and Dussur own 30% and 15%, respectively. SADCO is a 25% shareholder of Dussur. Total investment in SEMCO will be up to
SAR 646 of which SADCO’s share will be up to SAR 355. At December 31, 2021, SAR 86 has been drawn down by SEMCO.
(h) Other
(i) In order to comply with past Government directives, the Company expects to sell portions of its equity in Saudi Aramco Total
Refining and Petrochemical Company and Yanbu Aramco Sinopec Refining Company Limited (Note 39) through a public offering
of shares in Saudi Arabia.
(ii) Saudi Aramco is committed to comply with the Government directive to guarantee that Saudi Aramco Total Refining and
Petrochemical Company shall spend a total of SAR 375 over a 10-year period ending December 31, 2025 on social responsibility
programs. At December 31, 2021, SAR 217 remains to be spent.
(iii) Saudi Aramco is committed to comply with the Government directive to guarantee that Yanbu Aramco Sinopec Refining Company
Limited shall spend a total of SAR 375 on social responsibility programs by September 30, 2025. At December 31, 2021, SAR 229
remains to be spent.
(iv) Saudi Aramco has commitments of SAR 287 (2020: SAR 328) to invest in private equity investments both inside and outside the
Kingdom. Such commitments can be called on demand.
(v) Saudi Aramco has commitments of SAR 79 (2020: SAR 55) to fund additional loans and acquire additional unlisted equity
investments of certain small to mid-sized enterprises in the Kingdom. The commitments can be called by the enterprises upon
meeting certain conditions.
33. Contingencies
Saudi Aramco has contingent assets and liabilities with respect to certain disputed matters, including claims by and against contractors
and lawsuits and arbitrations involving a variety of issues. These contingencies arise in the ordinary course of business. It is not
anticipated that any material adjustments will result from these contingencies.
Saudi Aramco has bank guarantees with respect to the acquisition of a subsidiary (Note 35) amounting to SAR 1,958 as of December 31,
2021 (2020: SAR 2,867) arising in the ordinary course of business.
234 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 237]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
33. Contingencies continued
Saudi Aramco also has contingent liabilities with respect to the following:
(a) Sadara
On March 25, 2021, Sadara entered into various agreements to restructure its senior project financing debt amounting to SAR 37,280.
Terms of the restructuring include a principal repayment grace period until June 2026 and an extension of the final maturity date from
2029 to 2038. In connection with the restructuring, the Company and Dow have agreed to guarantee up to an aggregate of SAR
13,875 of senior debt principal and its associated interest in proportion to their ownership interests in Sadara. Further, the Company
and Dow have agreed to provide guarantees and support, in proportion to their ownership interest in Sadara, for interest payment
shortfalls on all outstanding senior debt until June 2026, working capital shortfall support up to SAR 1,875 in 2030, as well as an
undertaking to provide acceptable credit support to cover the required Debt Service Reserve Account balance, which needs to be
funded prior to June 2026.
In addition to the senior debt restructuring, effective March 25, 2021, the Company, Dow (and/or their affiliates) and Sadara have also
entered into agreements to (i) provide additional feedstock by increasing the allocated quantity of ethane and natural gasoline
supplied by Saudi Aramco, and (ii) gradually increase Saudi Aramco’s rights to market, through SABIC, its equity share of finished
products produced by Sadara (subject to certain agreed terms) over the next five to 10 years. The Company has provided a guarantee
for the payment and performance obligations of SABIC under the Product Marketing and Lifting Agreement.
On June 17, 2021, Excellent Performance Chemical Company (“EPCC”), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and Sadara
entered into a new SAR 1,500 subordinated revolving credit facility to provide shortfall funding to Sadara. As of December 31, 2021,
the facility was not utilized. Unless extended, the facility is scheduled to mature in June 2023. The unutilized amount of SAR 1,357
under the subordinated credit facility entered on June 17, 2013 has been cancelled.
With respect to Sadara’s fuel and feedstock allocation, Saudi Aramco has provided two letters of credit to the Ministry of Energy for
SAR 169 and SAR 225, respectively, to construct epoxy plants and for the development of projects to support conversion industries in
the Kingdom. In July 2021, the second letter of credit was reduced from SAR 225 to SAR 169 reflecting the sponsor payment for the
Ethylene Oxide and Propylene Oxide Pipeline project for Sadara.
(b) Petro Rabigh
In March 2015, the two founding shareholders of Petro Rabigh, the Company and Sumitomo Chemical Co. Ltd., concluded external
long-term debt financing arrangements with lenders on behalf of Petro Rabigh for the Rabigh II Project (“the Project”) in the amount
of SAR 19,380 for which the two shareholders provided guarantees for their equal share of the debt financing (the “Completion
Guarantees”). On September 30, 2020, Petro Rabigh achieved project completion under its senior finance agreements and, as a result,
the founding shareholders were released from their obligations under the Completion Guarantees. As part of project completion, the
founding shareholders entered into a debt service undertaking with the Rabigh II lenders, whereby each founding shareholder, on
a several basis, undertakes to pay 50% of any shortfalls in scheduled (and not accelerated) Rabigh II debt service on each Rabigh II
payment date until the earlier of the final Rabigh II repayment date in June 2032 or the repayment of SAR 5,625 of the outstanding
equity bridge loans. The semi-annual scheduled principal debt service under the Rabigh II financing is approximately SAR 622.
The founding shareholders arranged equity bridge loans (“the EBLs”) in an aggregate amount of SAR 11,250 which the founding
shareholders guarantee on a several and equal basis, to meet the equity financing requirements under the senior finance agreements.
The final maturity date of the EBLs is October 1, 2022. Petro Rabigh has drawn down SAR 11,250 under the EBLs as of December 31, 2021.
On September 30, 2020, Petro Rabigh entered into revolving loan facilities in an aggregate amount of SAR 5,625 with the Company
and Sumika Finance Company Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Sumitomo Chemical. Unless extended, these facilities will mature
in December 2023. As of December 31, 2021, the SAR 5,625 facilities were fully utilized, of which the Company’s share was SAR 2,813.
Petro Rabigh also entered into another revolving loan facility for SAR 1,875 with the Company, which, unless extended, matures in
December 2023. As of December 31, 2021, SAR 563 was utilized under this facility.
In December 2021, the Company signed a commitment letter to fully exercise its right to subscribe to its 37.5% share in the planned
Petro Rabigh Rights Issue Offering, representing 298,125,000 shares for a maximum commitment of SAR 2,981. The Company will
subscribe to its share through capitalization of amounts due from Petro Rabigh to the Company under a loan agreement entered into
between the companies in 2006. The Rights Issue Offering is subject to the applicable regulatory approvals, including the approval of
Petro Rabigh’s extraordinary general assembly.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 235
[Page 238]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
34. Sale of equity interests in subsidiaries
(a) Aramco Oil Pipelines Company (“AOPC”)
On June 17, 2021, the Company sold a 49% equity interest in AOPC, a newly formed wholly owned subsidiary of the Company,
to EIG Pearl Holdings S.à r.l. (“EIG”) for upfront sale proceeds of SAR 46,547 ($12,412) in cash.
EIG is an entity owned by a consortium of investors led by EIG Global Energy Partners. EIG, as a shareholder of AOPC, is entitled to
receive quarterly distributions of its pro rata share of AOPC’s available cash when the Company pays discretionary dividends to its
ordinary shareholders. Given the discretionary nature of distributions to EIG, in line with the principles outlined in Note 2(d), EIG’s
shareholding represents a non-controlling interest and, therefore, the upfront sale proceeds have been recognized in the consolidated
financial statements as a non-controlling interest within equity.
Immediately prior to the closing of the transaction, the Company leased the usage rights to its stabilized crude oil pipelines network
to AOPC for a 25-year period. Concurrently, AOPC granted the Company the exclusive right to use, operate and maintain the pipelines
network during the 25-year period in exchange for a quarterly, volume-based tariff payable by the Company to AOPC. The tariff is
backed by minimum volume commitments. The Company will at all times retain title to, and operational control of, the pipelines.
(b) Jubail Chemical Storage and Services Company (“Chemtank”)
On November 2, 2021, SABIC sold a 17% equity interest in Chemtank for a consideration of SAR 186. As the sale of shares does not
result in a change in control over Chemtank, a loss of SAR 34 arising from this transaction has been recognized in retained earnings,
which represents Saudi Aramco’s share of the loss recorded by SABIC. As at December 31, 2021, SABIC has an indirect shareholding
in Chemtank of 58%. Further, SABIC entered into a new joint venture agreement in respect of Chemtank, which resulted in the expiry
of a forward contract under the previous joint venture agreement and derecognition of the liability of SAR 296 through retained
earnings, which represents Saudi Aramco’s share of the gain recorded by SABIC.
(c) Aramco Gas Pipelines Company (“AGPC”)
On December 6, 2021, the Company signed a sale and purchase agreement with GreenSaif Pipelines Bidco S.à r.l. (formerly, GEPIF III
Finance III Lux S.à r.l.) (“GreenSaif”), to sell the Company’s 49% equity interest in AGPC, a newly formed wholly owned subsidiary of
the Company, for upfront sale proceeds of SAR 58,125 ($15,500) in cash. The closing of the transaction occurred on February 23, 2022
(Note 40).
GreenSaif is an entity owned by a consortium of investors led by affiliates of BlackRock Real Assets and Hassana Investment
Company, the investment management arm of the General Organization for Social Insurance (“GOSI”) in the Kingdom. GreenSaif, as
a shareholder of AGPC, is entitled to receive quarterly distributions of its pro rata share of AGPC’s available cash when the Company
pays discretionary dividends to its ordinary shareholders. Given the discretionary nature of distributions to GreenSaif, in line with the
principles outlined in Note 2(d), GreenSaif’s shareholding represents a non-controlling interest and, therefore, the upfront sale
proceeds will be recognized in the consolidated financial statements as a non-controlling interest within equity.
Immediately prior to the closing of the transaction, the Company leased the usage rights to its gas pipelines network to AGPC for
a 20-year period. Concurrently, AGPC granted the Company the exclusive right to use, operate and maintain the pipelines network
during the 20-year period in exchange for a quarterly, volume-based tariff payable by the Company to AGPC. The tariff is backed
by minimum volume commitments. The Company will at all times retain title to, and operational control of, the pipelines.
35. Investments in affiliates
(a) Investments in subsidiaries
(i) Saudi Basic Industries Corporation ("SABIC")
On June 16, 2020, the Company acquired a 70% equity interest in SABIC from the Public Investment Fund ("PIF"), for SAR 259,125
($69,100). This equates to SAR 123.39 ($32.90) per share.
SABIC is a global diversified chemicals company headquartered in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. SABIC manufactures on a global scale in the
Americas, Europe, Middle East, and Asia Pacific, making different products, including chemicals, commodity and high-performance
plastics, specialties, agri-nutrients and metals. The acquisition of the equity interest in SABIC is consistent with Saudi Aramco’s
long-term Downstream strategy to grow its integrated refining and petrochemicals capacity and create value from integration across
the hydrocarbon value chain.
The transaction resulted in the Company obtaining control of SABIC. The Company accounts for acquisitions of subsidiaries using the
acquisition method of accounting, including those acquisitions under common control and having commercial substance. This requires
recognition of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value as of the acquisition date.
236 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 239]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
35. Investments in affiliates continued
Saudi Aramco engaged an independent valuer in order to determine the fair values of the assets and liabilities of SABIC as part of the
purchase price allocation. The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities are as follows:
Cash and cash equivalents 27,515
Trade receivables 13,829
Inventories 24,919
Other current assets and receivables 4,803
Short-term investments 8,405
Property, plant and equipment (Note 5) 179,313
Intangible assets (Note 6) 37,079
Investments in joint ventures and associates 51,864
Other non-current assets 11,598
Trade and other payables (23,460)
Income tax and zakat payable (4,178)
Current borrowings (8,149)
Non-current borrowings (37,174)
Post-employment benefit obligations (16,549)
Other non-current liabilities (9,067)
Total identified net assets at fair value 260,748
Non-controlling interests (100,739)
Goodwill (Note 6) 99,116
Purchase consideration in the form of promissory notes 259,125
Non-controlling interests which result from both the Company’s partial ownership of SABIC, as well as SABIC’s partial ownership
of a number of its subsidiaries, were measured at their proportionate share of recognized net assets.
The purchase price amount is to be paid over several installments pursuant to a seller loan provided by PIF. Loan payments, which
are represented by promissory notes denominated in USD, are as follows:
Principal
loan amount Loan charge
On or before August 2, 2020 26,250 –
On or before April 7, 2021 18,750 –
On or before April 7, 2022 31,875 1,875
On or before April 7, 2023 39,375 1,875
On or before April 7, 2024 39,375 2,250
On or before April 7, 2025 39,375 3,000
On or before April 7, 2026 64,125 5,625
On or before April 7, 2027 – 3,750
On or before April 7, 2028 – 3,750
Total purchase price and loan charges 259,125 22,125
Payments to date (45,000) –
Total amount of outstanding installments 214,125 22,125
The combined fair value of the principal loan amounts and loan charges on the date of acquisition amounted to SAR 259,125 ($69,100).
This is subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method and is presented on a combined basis as ‘Deferred
consideration’ within ‘Borrowings’ (Note 20).
Saudi Aramco had agreed to make an accelerated payment of SAR 11,250 ($3,000) in April 2022 based on the occurrence of certain
market conditions in 2021. At December 31, 2021, it was determined that the relevant conditions were not met during 2021 and, as a
result, no accelerated payment will be required in April 2022. If the accelerated payment would have been required, it would have
reduced the principal amount that would otherwise be payable on or before April 2026 by SAR 11,250 ($3,000) and the loan charge in
April 2022 would have been reduced from SAR 1,875 ($500) to SAR 750 ($200).
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 237
[TABLE DATA]
27,515
13,829
24,919
4,803
8,405
179,313
37,079
51,864
11,598
(23,460)
(4,178)
(8,149)
(37,174)
(16,549)
(9,067)
260,748
(100,739)
99,116
259,125
26,250 | –
18,750 | –
31,875 | 1,875
39,375 | 1,875
39,375 | 2,250
39,375 | 3,000
64,125 | 5,625
– | 3,750
– | 3,750
259,125 | 22,125
(45,000) | –
214,125 | 22,125
[Page 240]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
35. Investments in affiliates continued
The goodwill of SAR 99,116 arising from the transaction includes synergies expected from the transaction, representing value
chain capture through downstream integration, procurement, supply chain, manufacturing, marketing and sales, future customer
relationships and intangibles such as acquired work force. Goodwill has been allocated to the Downstream operating segment,
which is expected to benefit from the synergies of the acquisition.
Acquisition and transaction costs of SAR 343 were expensed as selling, administrative and general expenses in the Consolidated
Statement of Income.
SABIC contributed revenues of SAR 64,659 and net loss of SAR 2,426 to Saudi Aramco for the period from June 16, 2020 to December
31, 2020. If the acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2020, management estimates that consolidated pro-forma revenue and net
income for the year ended December 31, 2020 would have been SAR 809,204 and SAR 179,168, respectively. These amounts have
been calculated using SABIC’s results and adjusted mainly for depreciation, amortization and unwinding adjustments that would
have been recorded assuming the acquisition-date fair value adjustments had applied from January 1, 2020.
(ii) SABIC Agri-Nutrients Investment Company (“SANIC”)
On January 4, 2021, SABIC Agri-Nutrients Company (“SABIC AN”), formerly Saudi Arabian Fertilizer Company (“SAFCO”), acquired
100% of the issued share capital of SANIC from SABIC. The total value of shares in SANIC is set at SAR 4,809, the consideration for which
was paid by issuing 59,368,738 ordinary new shares in SABIC AN to SABIC valued at SAR 81 per share, thereby increasing the ownership
by SABIC of SABIC AN from 43% to 50.1%. Under the terms of the transaction, the settlement of working capital and net debt at SANIC
since the transaction date, amounted to SAR 2. A net loss of SAR 677 arising from this transaction has been recognized in retained
earnings, which represents Saudi Aramco’s share of the loss recorded by SABIC.
(b) Investments in joint operations
(i) Tanajib Cogeneration Power Company (“TCPC”)
On August 23, 2021, TCPC was formed in the Kingdom as a mixed limited liability company for the purposes of electricity generation,
transmission and distribution, and water desalination, transportation and distribution. TCPC is 40% owned by SAPCO, a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Company, and 60% owned by Tanajib Cogeneration Holding Company Ltd., which is a consortium between Marubeni
Corporation and Abu Dhabi National Energy Company PJSC (TAQA). TCPC is the lead developer under a 20-year Build Own Operate and
Transfer (“BOOT”) arrangement and the Company will be the sole offtaker of the electricity, steam and water. SAPCO’s investment in
TCPC has been accounted for as a joint operation. SAPCO’s total investment is expected to be SAR 212. On October 15, 2021, project
financing was closed with external lenders, as part of which the Company provided funding related guarantees of SAR 284.
(ii) Jazan Integrated Gasification and Power Company (“JIGPC”)
On September 27, 2021, Saudi Aramco entered into an arrangement with Air Products, ACWA Power and Air Products Qudra relating
to the Jazan Integrated Gasification Combined-Cycle (“IGCC”) power plant, an Air Separation Unit (“ASU”) and certain ancillary assets
(together, “the facility”). The transaction entailed creation of JIGPC, a limited liability company, with SAPCO, a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Company owning 20%, while Air Products, ACWA Power and Air Products Qudra own 46%, 25% and 9%,
respectively. JIGPC will operate the facility under a 25-year contract for a predetermined monthly fee. Saudi Aramco will supply
feedstock to JIGPC, and JIGPC will produce power, steam, hydrogen and other utilities for Saudi Aramco. The transaction has been
accounted for as a financing arrangement and the assets remain in the books of the Company. Based on the facts and circumstances,
including the source of cash flows as well as the purpose and design of the arrangement, in line with the principles outlined in Note
2(d), JIGPC has been accounted for as a joint operation by Saudi Aramco.
SAPCO’s total contribution in JIGPC, as a shareholder, is SAR 3,600, of which, an initial contribution of SAR 2,205 was made during
October 2021. The financial close of the transaction occurred on October 27, 2021. The total proceeds of the transaction are SAR 44,063,
of which, the Company received the first tranche of SAR 18,386, net of the ASU purchase consideration of SAR 8,146. The ASU, which
was previously accounted for as a lease, was purchased by the Company and transferred with the rest of the facility as part of the
closing. The final tranche of SAR 17,531 is expected to be received during the fourth quarter of 2022.
(c) Investments in joint ventures and associates
(i) Novel Non-Metallic Solutions Manufacturing (“Novel”)
On October 22, 2020, SADCO and Baker Hughes Energy Technology UK Limited (“Baker Hughes”) established an affiliate to create a
multi sectorial nonmetallic investment platform in the Kingdom. The affiliate, Novel, is a limited liability company and is owned 50%
each by SADCO and Baker Hughes. SADCO’s investment in Novel has been accounted for as a joint venture. The total investment in
Novel is expected to be up to SAR 400, of which SADCO’s share is expected to be up to SAR 200. At December 31, 2021, SAR 150 has
been drawn down by Novel.
238 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[Page 241]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
35. Investments in affiliates continued
(ii) Middle East Information Technology Solutions (“MEITS”)
On February 8, 2021, SADCO and Raytheon Saudi Arabia (“Raytheon”) established an affiliate to engage in the marketing and
provision of cybersecurity integrated software and hardware along with related training and managed professional services. The
affiliate, MEITS, is a limited liability company formed and existing under the laws of the Kingdom, and is owned 51% by Raytheon
and 49% by SADCO. SADCO’s investment in MEITS has been accounted for as a joint venture. The total investment in MEITS is
expected to be up to SAR 229, of which SADCO’s share is expected to be up to SAR 113. At December 31, 2021, SAR 75 has been
drawn down by MEITS, of which SADCO’s share is SAR 37.
(iii) Port Neches Link LLC (“PNL”)
On March 8, 2021, Motiva Enterprises LLC (“Motiva”), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company and TransCanada Keystone Pipeline,
LP (“Keystone”) established an affiliate to construct and operate a pipeline in the state of Texas, USA. The affiliate, PNL is a limited
liability company owned 5% by Motiva and 95% by Keystone. Motiva’s investment in PNL has been accounted for as a joint venture.
The total investment in PNL is expected to be up to SAR 458, of which Motiva’s share is expected to be up to SAR 23.
(iv) Fuel Cell Innovation Co., Ltd. (“FCI”)
On March 19, 2021, S-Oil Corporation (“S-Oil”), a non-wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, acquired a 20% equity ownership
in FCI for SAR 28. FCI is a solid oxide fuel cell manufacturer and a South Korean limited liability company. The remaining interests in
FCI are held approximately 30% by the founders of FCI, 25% by Taqnia Energy, 23% by Dune Investment and 2% by Korea Technology
Finance Corporation. S-Oil’s investment in FCI has been accounted for as an associate.
(v) Sudair One Holding Company (“Sudair One”)
On May 24, 2021, SAPCO, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a shareholders’ agreement with Water and
Electricity Holding Company (“WEHC”), Oasis Two Renewables Energy Company (“OTREC”) and ACWA Power Saudi Electricity and
Water Development Company (“APSA”) to invest in the development of a solar plant and its operation and maintenance in the Sudair
region of the Kingdom (the “Project”). The Project is developed by Sudair One, which is a limited liability company, and is owned 35%
by PIF through WEHC, 35% by ACWA Power through OTREC and APSA, and 30% by SAPCO. SAPCO’s investment in Sudair One has
been accounted for as an associate. SAPCO’s share of the investment in Sudair One is expected to be SAR 270. Equity bridge loans (the
“EBLs”) of SAR 900 have been obtained and are due for repayment upon completion of construction, expected to be in November 2024.
The EBLs are guaranteed by the project sponsors, being the Company, PIF and ACWA Power, of which the Company’s share is SAR 270.
In addition, two guarantees totaling SAR 159 have been issued by SAPCO to support Sudair One’s obligations.
36. Dividends
Dividends declared and paid on ordinary shares are as follows:
SAR per share
2021 2020 2021 2020
Quarter:
March1 70,325 50,227 0.35 0.25
June 70,325 70,319 0.35 0.35
September 70,327 70,319 0.35 0.35
December 70,328 70,319 0.35 0.35
Total dividends paid 281,305 261,184 1.40 1.30
Declared in December 2019, paid in January 2020 – (35,475) – (0.18)
Total dividends declared 281,305 225,709 1.40 1.12
Dividends declared on March 18, 2022 and March 18, 20212 70,335 70,325 0.35 0.35
1. Dividends of SAR 70,325 paid in 2021 relate to 2020 results. Dividends of SAR 50,227 paid in 2020 relate to 2019 results.
2. The consolidated financial statements do not reflect a dividend to shareholders of approximately SAR 70,335, which was approved in March 2022 (March 2021: SAR 70,325). This
dividend will be deducted from unappropriated retained earnings in the year ending December 31, 2022. A total of SAR 281,315 in dividends were declared in 2021 and 2022 that
relate to 2021 results (2020: SAR 281,282).
On March 18, 2022, the Board of Directors recommended to the Extraordinary General Assembly to increase the Company’s share
capital by SAR 15,000 and increase the number of the Company’s issued ordinary shares by 20 billion without par value. Such increase
will be through capitalization from the Company’s retained earnings. Each shareholder will be granted one (1) bonus share for every ten
(10) shares owned. The increase of the share capital and the number of ordinary shares is subject to obtaining necessary approvals from
competent authorities and the Extraordinary General Assembly, which will be announced later as per the required regulatory period.
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 239
[TABLE DATA]
70,325
70,325
70,327
70,328
281,305
–
281,305
70,335
0.35
0.35
0.35
0.35
1.40
–
1.40
0.35
[Page 242]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
37. Earnings per share
The following table reflects the net income and number of shares used in the earnings per share calculations:
2021 2020
Net income attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the Company 395,203 184,926
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (in millions) (Note 2(cc)) 199,905 199,884
Earnings per share for net income attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the Company (in Saudi Riyals) 1.98 0.93
Potential ordinary shares during the year ended December 31, 2021 related to employees’ share-based compensation in respect of
employee share plans that were awarded to the Company’s eligible employees under those plan terms (Note 17). These share plans
did not have a significant dilution effect on basic earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2020.
38. Subsidiaries of Saudi Arabian Oil Company
Interest
income from
conventional
Conventional Conventional financial
financial financial assets for the
Place of business/ assets as of liabilities as year ended
country of December of December December
Principal business activity incorporation 31, 20211,2 31, 20212 31, 20212
A. Wholly owned:
4 Rivers Energy LLC Retail fuel operations USA – – –
Aramco (Beijing) Venture Management People’s
Consultant Co. Ltd Investment Republic of China 2 8 –
Aramco Affiliated Services Company Support services USA 1 – –
Purchasing and other
Aramco Asia India Private Limited services India 11 22 –
Purchasing and other
Aramco Asia Japan K.K. services Japan 65 208 –
Purchasing and other
Aramco Asia Korea Ltd. services South Korea 46 9 –
Purchasing and other
Aramco Asia Singapore Pte. Ltd. services Singapore 29 36 –
Aramco Associated Company Aircraft operations USA 230 519 17
Aramco Capital Company, LLC Aircraft leasing USA 29 – –
Aramco Chemicals Company Chemicals Saudi Arabia 531 598 3
Aramco Far East (Beijing) Business Services Petrochemical purchasing, People’s
Company Ltd. sales and other services Republic of China 654 81 8
Aramco Financial Services Company Financing USA 4 4 –
Aramco Gas Pipelines Company (Note 34 (c)) Gas operations Saudi Arabia – – –
Production and sale
Aramco Gulf Operations Company Ltd. of crude oil Saudi Arabia 2,132 1,184 3
Research and
Aramco Innovations LLC commercialization Russia 9 2 –
British Virgin
Aramco International Company Limited Support services Islands – – –
Aramco Lubricants and Retail Company Retail fuel marketing Saudi Arabia 37 – –
Aramco Overseas Company Azerbaijan Support services Azerbaijan – – –
Purchasing and other
Aramco Overseas Company B.V. services Netherlands 11,942 2,180 9
Personnel and other
Aramco Overseas Company Spain, S.L. support services Spain – – –
Personnel and other
Aramco Overseas Company UK Limited support services United Kingdom – 84 –
240 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
395,203
199,905
1.98
|  |
– | – | –
2 | 8 | –
1 | – | –
11 | 22 | –
65 | 208 | –
46 | 9 | –
29 | 36 | –
230 | 519 | 17
29 | – | –
531 | 598 | 3
654 | 81 | 8
4 | 4 | –
– | – | –
2,132 | 1,184 | 3
9 | 2 | –
– | – | –
37 | – | –
– | – | –
11,942 | 2,180 | 9
– | – | –
– | 84 | –
[Page 243]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
38. Subsidiaries of Saudi Arabian Oil Company continued
Interest
income from
conventional
Conventional Conventional financial
financial financial assets for the
Place of business/ assets as of liabilities as year ended
country of December of December December
Principal business activity incorporation 31, 20211,2 31, 20212 31, 20212
Personnel and other
Aramco Overseas Egypt LLC support services Egypt – – –
Aramco Overseas Indonesia PT PMA Project management support Indonesia – – –
Personnel and other
Aramco Overseas Malaysia SDN. BHD support services Malaysia 3 (2) –
Petrochemical manufacture
Aramco Performance Materials LLC and sales USA 11 3 –
Purchasing, engineering and
Aramco Services Company other services USA 51 411 –
Aramco Shared Benefits Company Benefits administration USA – 1 –
Importing, exporting and
trading of crude oil, refined
Aramco Trading Company and chemical products Saudi Arabia 1,567 6,492 61
Importing and exporting
Aramco Trading Fujairah FZE refined products UAE 634 1,873 1
Importing and exporting
Aramco Trading Limited refined products United Kingdom 52 1,791 31
Aramco Trading Singapore PTE. LTD Marketing and sales support Singapore 23 3,437 4
Aramco Venture Management Consultant
Company LLC Consulting services USA – 10 –
Aramco Ventures Holdings Limited Investment Guernsey 222 – –
Aramco Ventures Investments Limited Investment Guernsey 1,141 – –
Development, manufacture,
and marketing of high-
ARLANXEO Holding B.V. performance rubber Netherlands 285 3,342 21
ARLANXEO Belgium N.V. Belgium 315 146 –
ARLANXEO Branch Offices B.V. Netherlands 24 1 –
ARLANXEO Brasil S.A. Brazil (113) 220 5
ARLANXEO Canada Inc. Canada 217 206 1
ARLANXEO Deutschland GmbH Germany 324 404 –
ARLANXEO Elastomères France S.A.S. France 49 158 –
ARLANXEO Emulsion Rubber France S.A.S. France (518) 185 –
ARLANXEO High Performance Elastomers People's Republic
(Changzhou) Co., Ltd. of China 249 352 –
ARLANXEO India Private Limited India 6 2 –
ARLANXEO Netherlands B.V. Netherlands 42 320 13
ARLANXEO Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore (977) 622 –
ARLANXEO Switzerland S.A. Switzerland 544 3 –
ARLANXEO USA LLC USA 205 277 1
Aurora Capital Holdings LLC Real estate holdings USA – – –
Bolanter Corporation N.V. Crude oil storage Curaçao 2 – –
Briar Rose Ventures LLC Real estate holdings USA – – –
Canyon Lake Holdings LLC Retail fuel operations USA – – –
Petrochemical manufacture
Excellent Performance Chemicals Company and sales Saudi Arabia 361 1 107
Investment management
of post-employment
Investment Management Company benefit plans Saudi Arabia 4 – –
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 241
[TABLE DATA]
– | – | –
– | – | –
3 | (2) | –
11 | 3 | –
51 | 411 | –
– | 1 | –
1,567 | 6,492 | 61
634 | 1,873 | 1
52 | 1,791 | 31
23 | 3,437 | 4
– | 10 | –
222 | – | –
1,141 | – | –
285 | 3,342 | 21
315 | 146 | –
24 | 1 | –
(113) | 220 | 5
217 | 206 | 1
324 | 404 | –
49 | 158 | –
(518) | 185 | –
249 | 352 | –
6 | 2 | –
42 | 320 | 13
(977) | 622 | –
544 | 3 | –
205 | 277 | 1
– | – | –
2 | – | –
– | – | –
– | – | –
361 | 1 | 107
4 | – | –
[Page 244]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
38. Subsidiaries of Saudi Arabian Oil Company continued
Interest
income from
conventional
Conventional Conventional financial
financial financial assets for the
Place of business/ assets as of liabilities as year ended
country of December of December December
Principal business activity incorporation 31, 20211,2 31, 20212 31, 20212
Motiva Chemicals LLC Petrochemical manufacture USA 34 72 –
Motiva Enterprises LLC Refining and marketing USA 3,839 20,506 7
Motiva Pipeline LLC Pipeline transport USA – – –
Purchasing and sale of
petroleum goods and
Motiva Trading LLC other services USA 511 354 –
Mukamala International Investments Company Investment Saudi Arabia – – –
Mukamala Oil Field Services Limited Oil field services Saudi Arabia 97 – –
Pandlewood Corporation N.V. Financing Curaçao 6,858 2 12
Pedernales Ventures LLC Retail fuel operations USA – – –
Pedernales Ventures II LLC Investment USA 120 – –
SAEV Europe Ltd. Investment United Kingdom 4 4 –
SAEV Guernsey 1 Ltd. Investment Guernsey 221 – –
SAEV Guernsey Holdings Ltd. Investment Guernsey 1,521 – –
Saudi Aramco Asia Company Ltd. Investment Saudi Arabia 2,304 – 4
Saudi Aramco Capital Company Limited Investment Guernsey – – –
Saudi Aramco Development Company Investment Saudi Arabia 369 1 2
Saudi Aramco Energy Ventures US LLC Investment USA 2 3 –
Saudi Aramco Energy Ventures LLC Investment Saudi Arabia 229 – –
Saudi Aramco Entrepreneurship Center
Company Ltd. Financing Saudi Arabia 127 6 5
Saudi Aramco Entrepreneurship Venture
Company Ltd. Investment Saudi Arabia 316 – –
Saudi Aramco Jubail Refinery Company Refining Saudi Arabia 427 2,042 –
Saudi Aramco Power Company Power generation Saudi Arabia 7,257 14 16
Saudi Aramco Sukuk Company Investment Saudi Arabia 1 27 –
Research and
Saudi Aramco Technologies commercialization Saudi Arabia 180 35 –
Research and
Saudi Aramco Upstream Technology Company commercialization Saudi Arabia 14 – –
Saudi Petroleum International, Inc. Marketing support services USA 36 63 –
Marketing support and
Saudi Petroleum Overseas, Ltd. tanker services United Kingdom 53 31 –
Marketing support and British Virgin
Saudi Petroleum, Ltd. tanker services Islands 38 – –
Saudi Refining, Inc. Refining and marketing USA 517 58 –
Stellar Insurance, Ltd. Insurance Bermuda 9,713 727 195
Marine management
Vela International Marine Ltd. and transportation Liberia 17,542 – 30
Wisayah Global Investment Company Investment services Saudi Arabia 260 52 –
242 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
34 | 72 | –
3,839 | 20,506 | 7
– | – | –
511 | 354 | –
– | – | –
97 | – | –
6,858 | 2 | 12
– | – | –
120 | – | –
4 | 4 | –
221 | – | –
1,521 | – | –
2,304 | – | 4
– | – | –
369 | 1 | 2
2 | 3 | –
229 | – | –
127 | 6 | 5
316 | – | –
427 | 2,042 | –
7,257 | 14 | 16
1 | 27 | –
180 | 35 | –
14 | – | –
36 | 63 | –
53 | 31 | –
38 | – | –
517 | 58 | –
9,713 | 727 | 195
17,542 | – | 30
260 | 52 | –
[Page 245]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
38. Subsidiaries of Saudi Arabian Oil Company continued
Interest
income from
conventional
Conventional Conventional financial
financial financial assets for the
Place of business/ assets as of liabilities as year ended
country of December of December December
Principal business activity incorporation 31, 20211,2 31, 20212 31, 20212
B. Non-wholly owned4
51% Ownership of Aramco Oil Pipelines
Company Pipeline transport Saudi Arabia 229 – –
49% Ownership of Aramco Training
Services Company3 Training USA 1 – –
Development, manufacture,
50% Ownership of ARLANXEO-TSRC (Nantong) and marketing of high- People’s
Chemical Industries Co., Ltd.3 performance rubber Republic of China 39 (25) –
80% Ownership of Johns Hopkins Aramco
Healthcare Company Healthcare Saudi Arabia 613 647 1
0% Ownership in SA Global Sukuk Limited3 Investment Cayman Islands – 17 –
70% Ownership of Saudi Aramco Production and sale of
Base Oil Company petroleum based lubricants Saudi Arabia 1,339 2,991 4
50% Ownership of Saudi Aramco Nabors
Drilling Company3 Drilling Saudi Arabia 1,099 1,938 2
50% Ownership of Saudi Aramco Rowan
Offshore Drilling Company3 Drilling Saudi Arabia 1,016 1,996 2
61.6% Ownership of S-Oil Corporation Refining South Korea 6,409 31,260 30
61.6% Ownership of S-Oil Singapore Pte. Ltd Marketing support Singapore 34 98 –
Purchasing and sale of The Independent
61.6% Ownership of S-International Ltd. petroleum goods State of Samoa 4 – –
70% Ownership of Saudi Basic Industries
Corporation ("SABIC")5 Holding Saudi Arabia
70% Ownership of SABIC Luxembourg S.à r.l.
("SLUX") Holding Luxembourg
70% Ownership of SABIC Industrial Investments
Company ("SIIC") Holding Saudi Arabia
35.1% Ownership of SABIC Agri-Nutrients
Company ("SABIC AN") (formerly, Saudi
Arabian Fertilizer Company ("SAFCO"))3 Agri-Nutrients Saudi Arabia
70% Ownership of Arabian Petrochemical
Company ("PETROKEMYA")7 Toller Saudi Arabia
70% Ownership of Saudi Iron and Steel
Company ("HADEED") Metals Saudi Arabia
70% Ownership of SABIC Investment and Local
Content Development Company ("NUSANED") Investment Saudi Arabia
70% Ownership of SABIC Supply Chain Services
Limited Company ("SSCS") Petrochemical Saudi Arabia
56% Ownership of Saudi European
Petrochemical Company ("IBN ZAHR") Petrochemical Saudi Arabia
52.5% Ownership of Jubail United
Petrochemical Company ("UNITED") Petrochemical Saudi Arabia
52.5% Ownership of Saudi Methanol Company
("AR-RAZI") Toller Saudi Arabia
49% Ownership of National Industrial Gases
Company ("GAS")3 Toller Saudi Arabia
36.4% Ownership of Yanbu National
Petrochemical Company ("YANSAB")3 Toller Saudi Arabia
35% Ownership of National Methanol Company
("IBN-SINA")3 Toller Saudi Arabia
33.6% Ownership of Arabian Industrial Fibers
Company ("IBN RUSHD")3 Toller Saudi Arabia
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 243
[TABLE DATA]
|  |
229 | – | –
1 | – | –
39 | (25) | –
613 | 647 | 1
– | 17 | –
1,339 | 2,991 | 4
1,099 | 1,938 | 2
1,016 | 1,996 | 2
6,409 | 31,260 | 30
34 | 98 | –
4 | – | –
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
[Page 246]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
38. Subsidiaries of Saudi Arabian Oil Company continued
Interest
income from
conventional
Conventional Conventional financial
financial financial assets for the
Place of business/ assets as of liabilities as year ended
country of December of December December
Principal business activity incorporation 31, 20211,2 31, 20212 31, 20212
24.5% Ownership of Saudi Kayan Petrochemical
Company ("SAUDI KAYAN")3 Toller Saudi Arabia
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics Petrochemical manufacture
Argentina SRL and sales Argentina
70% Ownership of SABIC High Performance Petrochemical manufacture
Plastic (“SHPP”) Argentina SRL and sales Argentina
70% Ownership of SABIC Australia Pty Ltd. Holding Australia
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
Aus GmbH Holding Austria
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
GmbH & Co. KG Agent Austria
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
South America-Indústria e Comércio de Petrochemical manufacture
Plásticos Ltda and sales Brazil
70% Ownership of SHPP South America Petrochemical manufacture
Comércio de Plásticos Ltda and sales Brazil
70% Ownership of NV Pijpleiding Antwerpen-
Limburg-Luik (PALL) Support services Belgium
70% Ownership of SABIC Belgium NV Petrochemical Belgium
70% Ownership of SHPP Canada, Inc. Petrochemical Canada
70% Ownership of SABIC Petrochemicals Petrochemical manufacture
Canada, Inc. and sales Canada
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics People's
(China) Co., Ltd. Petrochemical Republic of China
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics Petrochemical manufacture People's
(Chongqing) Co., Ltd. and sales Republic of China
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics People's
International Trading (Shanghai) Ltd. Reseller Republic of China
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics People's
Management (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Support services Republic of China
People's
70% Ownership of SHPP (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Petrochemical Republic of China
70% Ownership of SABIC (Shanghai) Trading People's
Co. Ltd. Reseller Republic of China
70% Ownership of SABIC (China) Research People's
& Development Co. Ltd. Technology and innovation Republic of China
People's
70% Ownership of SABIC China Holding Co. Ltd. Petrochemical Republic of China
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
Czech s.r.o. Agent Czech Republic
70% Ownership of SHPP Czech s.r.o. Reseller Czech Republic
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
Denmark Aps Agent Denmark
70% Ownership of SABIC Nordic A/S Agent Denmark
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
Finland Oy Agent Finland
70% Ownership of SHPP Finland Oy Reseller Finland
70% Ownership of SABIC France S.A.S. Reseller France
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
France S.A.S. Agent France
244 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
[Page 247]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
38. Subsidiaries of Saudi Arabian Oil Company continued
Interest
income from
conventional
Conventional Conventional financial
financial financial assets for the
Place of business/ assets as of liabilities as year ended
country of December of December December
Principal business activity incorporation 31, 20211,2 31, 20212 31, 20212
70% Ownership of SHPP France S.A.S. Reseller France
70% Ownership of SABIC Deutschland GmbH Reseller Germany
70% Ownership of SABIC Holding
Deutschland GmbH Holding Germany
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative
Plastics GmbH Agent Germany
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
Holding Germany GmbH Holding Germany
70% Ownership of SABIC Polyolefine GmbH Toller Germany
70% Ownership of SHPP Germany GmbH Reseller Germany
70% Ownership of SABIC Greece M.E.P.E. Agent Greece
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
Hong Kong Ltd. Reseller Hong Kong
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
SIT Holding Ltd. Holding Hong Kong
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
Taiwan Holding Ltd. Petrochemical Hong Kong
70% Ownership of SHPP Hong Kong Reseller Hong Kong
70% Ownership of SABIC Hungary Kft. Agent Hungary
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
Kereskedelmi Kft. Agent Hungary
70% Ownership of SHPP Hungary Kft. Reseller Hungary
70% Ownership of SABIC India Pvt Ltd. Agent India
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics Petrochemical manufacture
India Private Ltd. and sales India
70% Ownership of SABIC R&T Pvt Ltd. Technology and innovation India
70% Ownership of High Performance Plastics Petrochemical manufacture
India Pvt Ltd. and sales India
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
Italy Srl Toller Italy
70% Ownership of SABIC Italia Srl Reseller Italy
70% Ownership of SABIC Sales Italy Srl Agent Italy
70% Ownership of SHPP Italy Srl Toller Italy
70% Ownership of SHPP Sales Italy Srl Reseller Italy
Petrochemical manufacture
70% Ownership of SHPP Japan LLC and sales Japan
70% Ownership of SABIC Petrochemicals
Japan LLC Petrochemical Japan
70% Ownership of SABIC Korea Ltd. Petrochemical South Korea
70% Ownership of SHPP Korea Ltd. Reseller South Korea
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
Malaysia Sdn Bhd Agent Malaysia
70% Ownership of SHPP Malaysia Sdn Bhd Reseller Malaysia
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics Petrochemical manufacture
Mexico S de RL de CV and sales Mexico
70% Ownership of High Performance Plastics Petrochemical manufacture
Manufacturing Mexico S de RL de CV and sales Mexico
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 245
[TABLE DATA]
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
[Page 248]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
38. Subsidiaries of Saudi Arabian Oil Company continued
Interest
income from
conventional
Conventional Conventional financial
financial financial assets for the
Place of business/ assets as of liabilities as year ended
country of December of December December
Principal business activity incorporation 31, 20211,2 31, 20212 31, 20212
Petrochemical manufacture
70% Ownership of BV Snij-Unie HiFi and sales Netherlands
70% Ownership of SABIC Capital B.V. Financing Netherlands
70% Ownership of SABIC Capital I B.V. Financing Netherlands
70% Ownership of SABIC Capital II B.V. Financing Netherlands
70% Ownership of Petrochemical Pipeline
Services B.V. Support services Netherlands
70% Ownership of SABIC Europe B.V. Holding Netherlands
70% Ownership of SABIC Global
Technologies B.V. Technology and innovation Netherlands
70% Ownership of SABIC International
Holdings B.V. Holding Netherlands
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Principal (Manufacturing,
Plastics B.V. Sales, R&D) Netherlands
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative
Plastics GP B.V. Holding Netherlands
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative
Plastics Holding B.V. Holding Netherlands
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative
Plastics Utilities B.V. Support services Netherlands
70% Ownership of SABIC Licensing B.V. Technology and innovation Netherlands
70% Ownership of SABIC Limburg B.V. Support services Netherlands
70% Ownership of SABIC Sales Europe B.V. Reseller Netherlands
Principal (Manufacturing,
70% Ownership of SABIC Petrochemicals B.V. Sales, R&D) Netherlands
70% Ownership of SABIC Ventures B.V. Technology and innovation Netherlands
70% Ownership of SABIC Mining B.V. Holding Netherlands
70% Ownership of SHPP Holding B.V. Holding Netherlands
70% Ownership of SHPP Global
Technologies B.V. Petrochemical Netherlands
70% Ownership of SHPP Ventures B.V. Technology and innovation Netherlands
70% Ownership of SHPP Capital B.V. Financing Netherlands
70% Ownership of SHPP Capital I B.V. Financing Netherlands
70% Ownership of SHPP Capital II B.V. Financing Netherlands
Principal (Manufacturing,
70% Ownership of SHPP B.V. Sales, R&D) Netherlands
70% Ownership of SHPP Sales B.V. Reseller Netherlands
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
Poland Sp. Z o.o. Agent Poland
70% Ownership of SABIC Poland Sp. Z o.o. Agent Poland
70% Ownership of SHPP Poland Sp. Z o.o. Reseller Poland
70% Ownership of LLC SABIC Eastern Europe Agent Russia
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
Rus OOO Agent Russia
70% Ownership of SHPP Russia OOO Agent Russia
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
(SEA) Pte. Ltd. Reseller Singapore
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd. Holding Singapore
Petrochemical manufacture
70% Ownership of SHPP Singapore Pte. Ltd. and sales Singapore
246 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
[Page 249]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
38. Subsidiaries of Saudi Arabian Oil Company continued
Interest
income from
conventional
Conventional Conventional financial
financial financial assets for the
Place of business/ assets as of liabilities as year ended
country of December of December December
Principal business activity incorporation 31, 20211,2 31, 20212 31, 20212
70% Ownership of SABIC Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. Reseller Singapore
70% Ownership of SHPP Slovakia s.r.o. Reseller Slovakia
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics
Espana ScpA Toller Spain
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics GP
BV, Sociedad en Comandita Holding Spain
70% Ownership of SABIC Sales Spain SL Agent Spain
70% Ownership of SABIC Marketing Ibérica S.A. Reseller Spain
70% Ownership of SHPP Manufacturing SL Toller Spain
70% Ownership of SHPP Marketing Spain SL Reseller Spain
70% Ownership of Saudi Innovative Plastics
Sweden AB Agent Sweden
70% Ownership of SHPP Thailand Co. Ltd. Petrochemical Thailand
70% Ownership of SABIC Thailand Co. Ltd. Petrochemical Thailand
70% Ownership of SHPP Petrokimya Ticaret
Ltd Sirketi Marketing and sales support Turkey
70% Ownership of SABIC Global Ltd. Holding United Kingdom
70% Ownership of SABIC Tees Holdings Ltd. Holding United Kingdom
70% Ownership of SHPP Manufacturing UK Ltd. Petrochemical United Kingdom
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics Ltd. Agent United Kingdom
70% Ownership of SABIC UK Ltd. Reseller United Kingdom
Investment management
of post-employment
70% Ownership of SABIC UK Pension Trustee Ltd. benefit plans United Kingdom
70% Ownership of SABIC UK Petrochemicals Ltd. Toller United Kingdom
70% Ownership of SHPP Sales UK Ltd. Reseller United Kingdom
70% Ownership of Exatec, LLC Technology and innovation USA
35.7% Ownership of Mt. Vernon Phenol Petrochemical manufacture
Plant Partnership3 and sales USA
70% Ownership of SABIC Americas Inc. Reseller USA
70% Ownership of SABIC US Holdings LP Holding USA
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics Mt.
Vernon, LLC Toller USA
70% Ownership of SABIC Innovative Plastics Principal (Manufacturing,
US LLC Sales, R&D) USA
70% Ownership of SABIC Petrochemicals Petrochemical manufacture
Holding US, Inc. and sales USA
70% Ownership of SABIC Ventures US
Holdings LLC Technology and innovation USA
70% Ownership of SABIC US Projects LLC Projects USA
70% Ownership of SABIC Americas Growth LLC Projects USA
70% Ownership of SABIC US Methanol LLC Projects USA
Principal (Manufacturing,
70% Ownership of SHPP US LLC Sales, R&D) USA
70% Ownership of SABIC Vietnam Ltd. Agent Vietnam
70% Ownership of SHPP Vietnam Co Ltd Petrochemical Vietnam
70% Ownership of SABCAP Insurance Limited
("SABCAP") Insurance Guernsey
70% Ownership of SABIC Petrokemya Ticaret
Limited ("SABIC TURKEY") Reseller Turkey
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 247
[TABLE DATA]
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
[Page 250]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
38. Subsidiaries of Saudi Arabian Oil Company continued
Interest
income from
conventional
Conventional Conventional financial
financial financial assets for the
Place of business/ assets as of liabilities as year ended
country of December of December December
Principal business activity incorporation 31, 20211,2 31, 20212 31, 20212
70% Ownership of SABIC Middle East Offshore
Company ("SABIC MIDDLE EAST")6 Marketing and sales support Lebanon
70% Ownership of SABIC Middle East Business
Management Marketing and sales support Jordan
70% Ownership of SABIC South Africa Marketing and sales support South Africa
70% Ownership of SABIC Africa for Trading
& Marketing ("SABIC AFRICA")6 Marketing and sales support Egypt
70% Ownership of SABIC Morocco Marketing and sales support Morocco
70% Ownership of SABIC Global Mobility Personnel and other
Company ("GMC") support services UAE
70% Ownership of SABIC Mobility Company
("GMC LLC") Petrochemical UAE
70% Ownership of SABIC Tunisia Marketing and sales support Tunisia
70% Ownership of SABIC Kenya Marketing and sales support Kenya
70% Ownership of SABIC (Pvt.) Pakistan Marketing and sales support Pakistan
70% Ownership of SABIC East Africa Marketing and sales support Egypt
69.3% Ownership of International Shipping
and Transportation Co. ("ISTC") Support services Saudi Arabia
63% Ownership of SABIC Terminal Services
Company ("SABTANK") Support services Saudi Arabia
40.6% Ownership of Jubail Chemical Storage
and Services Company ("Chemtank")3 Support services Saudi Arabia
35.1% Ownership of SABIC Agri-Nutrients
Investment Company ("SANIC")3 Agri-Nutrients Saudi Arabia
35.1% Ownership of National Chemical
Fertiliser Company ("IBN AL-BAYTAR")3 Agri-Nutrients Saudi Arabia
17.5% Ownership of Al-Jubail Fertiliser
Company ("AL BAYRONI")3 Agri-Nutrients Saudi Arabia
1. Conventional financial assets comprise cash, time deposits, short-term investments and investments in securities.
2. Represents 100% amounts of subsidiaries, after elimination of intercompany transactions.
3. Agreements and constitutive documents provide Saudi Aramco control.
4. Percentages disclosed reflect the effective ownership of Saudi Aramco in the respective entities.
5. Information for conventional financial assets, liabilities and interest income from conventional financial assets not included for entities and groups listed on the Tadawul.
6. Under liquidation.
7. In February 2021, Saudi Specialty Chemicals Company ("SP.CHEM") and Saudi Organometallic Chemicals Company ("SOCC") merged into PETROKEMYA.
8. Energy City Development Company and Energy City Operating Company are wholly owned unconsolidated structured entities and hence not included in the above listing.
248 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
[Page 251]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
39. Joint arrangements and associates of Saudi Arabian Oil Company
Interest
income from
conventional
Conventional Conventional financial
financial financial assets for the
Place of business/ assets as of liabilities as year ended
Percent country of December of December December
Principal business activity ownership4 incorporation 31, 20211,2 31, 20212 31, 20212
A. Joint operations:
Oil and gas exploration Saudi-Kuwaiti
Al-Khafji Joint Operations and production 50% Partitioned Zone – – –
Fadhili Plant Cogeneration
Company Power generation 30% Saudi Arabia 72 1,120 –
Jazan Integrated Gasification
and Power Company Power systems 20% Saudi Arabia 32 3,233 –
Maasvlakte Olie Terminal C.V. Tank storage 9.6% Netherlands – – –
Maasvlakte Olie Terminal N.V. Tank storage 16.7% Netherlands – – –
Pengerang Petrochemical
Company SDN. BHD. Petrochemical 50% Malaysia 67 3,315 –
Pengerang Refining Company
SDN. BHD. Refining 50% Malaysia 239 22,823 –
Power Cogeneration
Plant Company Power generation 50% Saudi Arabia 52 423 –
Saudi Aramco Mobil Refinery
Company Ltd. Refining 50% Saudi Arabia 117 2,958 –
Saudi Aramco Total Refining and
Petrochemical Company3 Refining/ petrochemical 62.5% Saudi Arabia 485 10,151 5
Tanajib Cogeneration
Power Company Power systems 40% Saudi Arabia 12 277 –
Yanbu Aramco Sinopec Refining
Company Limited3 Refining 62.5% Saudi Arabia 2,000 5,722 –
Gulf Coast Growth Venture LLC
("GCGV")5 Petrochemical 35% USA
Saudi Butanol Company
("SABUCO")5 Petrochemical 8.2% Saudi Arabia
Saudi Methacrylates Company
("SAMAC")5 Petrochemical 35% Saudi Arabia
B. Joint ventures:
Arabian Rig Manufacturing
Company ("ARM") Rig manufacturing 30% Saudi Arabia 196 821 –
First Coast Energy LLP ("FCE") Marketing 50% USA 1 350 –
Huajin Aramco Petrochemical People's Republic
Company (“HAPCO”) Petrochemical 35% of China – – –
Jasara Program Management
Company ("Jasara") Engineering services 20% Saudi Arabia 129 76 –
Juniper Ventures of Texas LLP
("JVTX") Marketing 60% USA 8 – –
Middle East Information
Technology Solutions (“MEITS”) Information technology 49% Saudi Arabia 70 – –
Novel Non-Metallic Solutions
Manufacturing ("Novel") Manufacturing 50% Saudi Arabia 200 – –
Port Neches Link LLC (“PNL”) Pipelines 5% USA 189 – –
Sadara Chemical Company
("Sadara") Petrochemical 65% Saudi Arabia 9,115 52,946 2
Saudi Arabian Industrial Investment
Company (“Dussur”) Investment 42.5% Saudi Arabia 316 216 19
Saudi Engines Manufacturing
Company ("SEMCO") Manufacturing 55% Saudi Arabia 140 4 –
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 249
[TABLE DATA]
|  |
– | – | –
72 | 1,120 | –
32 | 3,233 | –
– | – | –
– | – | –
67 | 3,315 | –
239 | 22,823 | –
52 | 423 | –
117 | 2,958 | –
485 | 10,151 | 5
12 | 277 | –
2,000 | 5,722 | –
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
196 | 821 | –
1 | 350 | –
– | – | –
129 | 76 | –
8 | – | –
70 | – | –
200 | – | –
189 | – | –
9,115 | 52,946 | 2
316 | 216 | 19
140 | 4 | –
[Page 252]
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
39. Joint arrangements and associates of Saudi Arabian Oil Company continued
Interest
income from
conventional
Conventional Conventional financial
financial financial assets for the
Place of business/ assets as of liabilities as year ended
Percent country of December of December December
Principal business activity ownership4 incorporation 31, 20211,2 31, 20212 31, 20212
Saudi Silk Road Industrial Services
Company ("SSRIS") Investment services 20% Saudi Arabia 145 – –
Lubricants production
S-Oil TOTAL Lubricants Co. Limited and sales 50% South Korea 155 141 –
Star Enterprise (“Star-Ent”) Pension administration 50% USA – – –
Tas'helat Marketing Company
("TMC") Marketing 50% Saudi Arabia 314 – 4
Advance Energy Storage System
Company (“AESSC”)5 Petrochemical 30.1% Saudi Arabia
Al-Jubail Petrochemical Company
("Kemya")5 Petrochemical 35% Saudi Arabia
Cosmar Company (“COSMAR”)5 Petrochemical 35% USA
Eastern Petrochemical Company
("Sharq")5 Petrochemical 35% Saudi Arabia
SABIC Plastic Energy Advanced
Recycling BV (“SPEAR”)5 Petrochemical 35% Netherlands
SABIC SK Nexlene Company Pte.
Ltd. (“SSNC”)5 Petrochemical 35% Singapore
Saudi Yanbu Petrochemical
Company ("Yanpet")5 Petrochemical 35% Saudi Arabia
SD Beteiligungs-GmbH & Co KG5 Investments 35% Germany
SD Lizenzverwertungs-GmbH & Co5 License company 35% Germany
SD Verwaltungs-GmbH5 Administrative company 35% Germany
Sinopec SABIC Tianjin
Petrochemical Company People's Republic
("SSTPC")5 Petrochemical 35% of China
Utility Support Group B.V. ("USG")5 Petrochemical 35% Netherlands
C. Associates:
BP AOC Pumpstation Maatschap Storage 50% Netherlands – – –
BP ESSO AOC Maatschap Storage 34.4% Netherlands – – –
Fuel Cell Innovation Co., Ltd. (“FCI”) Fuel cell manufacturing 20% South Korea 31 2 –
Fujian Refining and Petrochemical People's Republic
Company Limited (“FREP”) Refining/ petrochemical 25% of China 5,539 4,725 85
GCC Electrical Equipment Testing
Lab (“GCC Lab”) Inspection 20% Saudi Arabia 70 – –
Hyundai Oilbank Co. Ltd. Refining/ marketing/
("Hyundai Oilbank") petrochemical 17% South Korea 8,075 26,865 301
International Maritime Industries
Company (“IMIC”) Maritime 40.1% Saudi Arabia 786 560 3
Lukoil Saudi Arabia Energy Ltd. British Virgin
("LUKSAR") Exploration 20% Islands – – –
Power & Water Utility Company for
Jubail and Yanbu (“Marafiq”) Utilities 42.2% Saudi Arabia 1,920 12,942 14
Sinopec SenMei (Fujian) Petroleum People's Republic
Company Limited (“SSPC”) Marketing/ petrochemical 22.5% of China 2,103 2,088 38
Sudair One Holding Company
("Sudair One") Holding 30.3% Saudi Arabia – – –
Team Terminal B.V. Storage 34.4% Netherlands 10 – –
Aluminium Bahrain BSC ("ALBA")5 Aluminum 14.4% Bahrain
ARG mbH & Co KG ("ARG")5 Pipeline 17.5% Germany
ARG Verwaltungs GmbH5 Administrative company 17.5% Germany
Clariant AG ("Clariant")5 Specialty chemical 22.1% Switzerland
250 Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021
[TABLE DATA]
145 | – | –
155 | 141 | –
– | – | –
314 | – | 4
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
– | – | –
– | – | –
31 | 2 | –
5,539 | 4,725 | 85
70 | – | –
8,075 | 26,865 | 301
786 | 560 | 3
– | – | –
1,920 | 12,942 | 14
2,103 | 2,088 | 38
– | – | –
10 | – | –
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
[Page 253]
Consolidated
financial statements
All amounts in millions of Saudi Riyals unless otherwise stated
39. Joint arrangements and associates of Saudi Arabian Oil Company continued
Interest
income from
conventional
Conventional Conventional financial
financial financial assets for the
Place of business/ assets as of liabilities as year ended
Percent country of December of December December
Principal business activity ownership4 incorporation 31, 20211,2 31, 20212 31, 20212
German Pipeline Development
Company GMBH ("GPDC")5 Support services 27.3% Germany
Gulf Aluminum and Rolling Mills
Company ("GARMCO")5 Aluminum 21.3% Bahrain
Gulf Petrochemical Industries
Company ("GPIC")5 Petrochemical 11.7% Bahrain
Ma'aden Phosphate Company
("MPC")5 Agri-Nutrients 21% Saudi Arabia
Ma'aden Wa'ad Al Shamal
Phosphate Company ("MWSPC")5 Agri-Nutrients 10.5% Saudi Arabia
Mallinda, Inc. (“MALLINDA”)5 Technology and innovation 18.3% USA
Mauritania Saudi Mining & Steel
Company S.A. (“TAKAMUL”)5 Investment 35% Mauritania
National Chemical Carrier Company
("NCC")5 Transportation 14% Saudi Arabia
National Shipping Company of
Saudi Arabia (“Bahri”)5 Global logistics services 20% Saudi Arabia
Nusaned Fund5 Investments 35% Saudi Arabia
Rabigh Refining and Petrochemical
Company (“Petro Rabigh”)5 Refining/ petrochemical 37.5% Saudi Arabia
Saudi Pallet Manufacturing Co.
(“SPMC”)5 Manufacturing 16.1% Saudi Arabia
1. Conventional financial assets comprise cash, time deposits, short-term investments and investments in securities.
2. Represents Saudi Aramco’s share of conventional financial assets, financial liabilities and interest income.
3. Agreements and constitutive documents do not give a single shareholder control; therefore, the joint operation does not qualify as a subsidiary.
4. Percentages disclosed reflect the effective ownership of Saudi Aramco in the respective entities.
5. Information for conventional financial assets, liabilities and interest income from conventional financial assets not included for entities and groups listed on the Tadawul.
40. Events after the reporting period
(a) On January 12, 2022, Saudi Aramco signed sale and purchase agreements for the acquisition of a 30% equity interest in the
Gdansk Refinery joint venture with PKN Orlen, a 100% ownership of Grupa Lotos S.A.’s wholesale business, and a 50% equity
interest in the jet fuel joint venture with Air BP. The transaction, with a total purchase price of SAR 2,063, is expected to close in
2022, subject to regulatory approvals.
(b) On January 24, 2022, Saudi Aramco, in agreement with PIF, made a partial prepayment of SAR 28,579 ($7,621), which has reduced
the principal amounts of two promissory notes by SAR 26,250 ($7,000) and SAR 3,750 ($1,000) that were payable on or before
April 7, 2024 and April 7, 2026, respectively (Note 20).
(c) On January 24, 2022, SABIC Agri-Nutrients Company (“SABIC AN”), a subsidiary of SABIC, signed a binding agreement to acquire
49% of the share capital of ETG Inputs Holdco Limited. The transaction is expected to close in 2022, subject to obtaining the
required regulatory approvals and other terms and conditions of the acquisition agreement.
(d) On February 2, 2022, SABIC announced the signing of a sale and purchase agreement with Clariant to purchase a 50% equity
interest in a specialties company, Scientific Design, which is an equally owned joint venture between SABIC and Clariant. The
transaction is expected to close in 2022, subject to regulatory approvals.
(e) On February 23, 2022, the Company closed the transaction for a sale of a 49% equity interest in Aramco Gas Pipelines Company
(“AGPC”), a newly formed wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, to GreenSaif Pipelines Bidco S.à r.l. (formerly, GEPIF III
Finance III Lux S.à r.l.) (“GreenSaif”) for upfront proceeds of SAR 58,125 ($15,500) in cash. GreenSaif is an entity owned by
a consortium of investors led by affiliates of BlackRock Real Assets and Hassana Investment Company (Note 34(c)).
Saudi Aramco Annual Report 2021 251
[TABLE DATA]
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |