SOURCE: Saudi Aramco — Press Release 2022 Q4 FY
TYPE: Press Release
URL: https://www.aramco.com/-/media/publications/corporate-reports/reports-and-presentations/2022/q4---fy/saudi-aramco-fy-2022-results-press-release-english.pdf
============================================================

[Page 1]
Press Release
Aramco announces record full-year 2022 results
Net income rises 46.5% YoY to $161.1 billion, free cash flow increases to $148.5 billion
• Record net income: $161.1 billion (2021: $110.0 billion)
• Record cash flow from operating activities: $186.2 billion (2021: $139.4 billion)
• Capital expenditure increased 18.0% year-on-year, as progress continues on multiple
fronts to deliver reliable, affordable and more sustainable energy
• Record free cash flow*: $148.5 billion (2021: $107.5 billion)
• Gearing ratio*: -7.9% as at December 31 (end of 2021: 12.0%)
• Q4 2022 net income in line with analyst consensus, excluding certain non-cash items of
c.$3.3 billion
• Board declared Q4 cash dividend of $19.5 billion, an increase of 4.0% compared to Q3
2022, in line with aim to deliver a sustainable and progressive dividend. Board also
recommends distribution of bonus shares to eligible shareholders
• Focus on lower-carbon energy solutions with launch of $1.5 billion Sustainability Fund, as
well as one of the world’s largest planned carbon capture and storage hubs
• Strong track record of reliability continues, with 99.9% supply reliability
Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, March 12, 2023 – The Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco” or “the
Company”) today announced its full-year 2022 financial results, reporting a record net income of
$161.1 billion — its highest annual profits as a listed company. Aramco also declared a fourth
quarter dividend of $19.5 billion, to be paid in the first quarter of 2023.
The results were underpinned by stronger crude oil prices, higher volumes sold and improved
margins for refined products, while the Company continues to strengthen its oil and gas
production capacity, as well as its downstream portfolio, to meet anticipated future demand.
Commenting on the results, Aramco President & CEO Amin H. Nasser, said:
“Aramco delivered record financial performance in 2022, as oil prices strengthened due to
increased demand around the world. We also continued to focus on our long-term strategy,
building both capacity and capability across the value chain with the aim of addressing energy
security and sustainability.
[Page 2]
“Given that we anticipate oil and gas will remain essential for the foreseeable future, the risks of
underinvestment in our industry are real — including contributing to higher energy prices. To
leverage our unique advantages at scale and be part of the global solution, Aramco has embarked
on the largest capital spending program in its history, and last year our capex rose by 18.0% to
reach $37.6 billion.
“Our focus is not only on expanding oil, gas and chemicals production, but also investing in new
lower-carbon technologies with potential to achieve additional emission reductions — in our own
operations and for end users of our products.”
Financial Highlights
Aramco’s net income increased by 46.5% to a record $161.1 billion in 2022, compared to $110.0
billion in 2021. The increase in net income reflects stronger crude oil prices, higher volumes sold
and improved margins for refined products. Q4 2022 net income is in line with analyst estimates,
excluding certain non-cash items of around $3.3 billion.
Free cash flow* reached a record $148.5 billion in 2022, compared to $107.5 billion in 2021.
Aramco continues to emphasize a strong balance sheet and its gearing ratio at the end of 2022
was -7.9%, compared to 12.0% at the end of 2021.
Aramco declared a dividend of $19.5 billion for the fourth quarter, to be paid in Q1 2023. This
represents a 4.0% increase compared to the previous quarter, aligned with the Company’s
dividend policy aiming to deliver a sustainable and progressive dividend. Additionally, the Board
of Directors also recommended the distribution of bonus shares to eligible shareholders in the
amount of one share for every 10 shares held, subject to required Extraordinary General
Assembly and regulatory approvals.
Capital expenditure in 2022 was $37.6 billion, an increase of 18.0% from 2021. Aramco expects
2023 capital expenditure to be approximately $45.0 billion to $55.0 billion including external
investments, with capex increasing until around the middle of the decade.
Aramco also completed an energy infrastructure deal in February 2022 resulting in a consortium
of investors, led by BlackRock Real Assets and Hassana Investment Company, acquiring a 49%
stake in a newly formed subsidiary, Aramco Gas Pipelines Company (AGPC), for $15.5 billion.
Operational Highlights
In 2022, Aramco’s average hydrocarbon production was 13.6 million barrels of oil equivalent per
day (mmboed), including 11.5 million barrels per day (mmbpd) of total liquids.
Aramco continued its strong track record of supply reliability by delivering crude oil and other
products with 99.9% reliability in 2022. It was the third year running that Aramco achieved this
level of reliability.
[Page 3]
Upstream continues to execute its growth plans to promote long-term productivity of Saudi
Arabia’s reservoirs and is proceeding with implementing the Government’s mandate to increase
Aramco’s crude oil MSC to 13.0 mmbpd by 2027.
Construction and engineering activities for the Marjan and Berri crude oil increments continue
to progress, and are expected to add production capacity of 300,000 barrels per day (bpd) and
250,000 bpd, respectively, by 2025.
The Zuluf crude oil increment is in the engineering phase, and is expected to provide a central
facility to process a total of 600,000 bpd of crude oil from the Zuluf field by 2026. Construction
activities are also continuing on the Dammam development project, which is expected to add
25,000 bpd and 50,000 bpd of crude oil by 2024 and 2027, respectively.
Compression projects at the Haradh and Hawiyah fields commenced commissioning activities
and full capacity is expected to be reached in 2023. Construction at the Hawiyah Unayzah Gas
Reservoir Storage, the first underground natural gas storage project in the Kingdom, is at an
advanced stage and has commenced injection activities. The program is designed to provide up
to 2.0 billion standard cubic feet per day of natural gas for reintroduction into the Kingdom’s
Master Gas System by 2024.
Aramco announced its final investment decision to participate in the development of a major
integrated refinery and petrochemical complex in northeast China. The project presents an
opportunity for Aramco to supply up to 210,000 bpd of crude oil feedstock to the complex. The
transaction is subject to certain closing conditions, including regulatory approvals.
In August, Aramco signed an equity purchase agreement to acquire Valvoline Inc.’s global
products business (Valvoline Global Products) for $2.65 billion. The strategic acquisition, which
closed in March 2023, will complement Aramco’s line of premium branded lubricant products,
optimize its global base oils production capabilities, and expand Aramco’s own R&D activities and
partnerships with original equipment manufacturers.
In November, three transactions with Polish refiner and fuel retailer PKN ORLEN were completed,
expanding Aramco’s presence in the European downstream sector. As part of the transaction,
the Company acquired equity stakes of 30% in a 210,000 bpd refinery in Gdańsk; 100% in an
associated wholesale business; and 50% in a jet fuel marketing joint venture.
[Page 4]
Aramco and TotalEnergies made a final investment decision in December to construct a large
petrochemical complex in Saudi Arabia. It will enable an existing SATORP refinery to advance
Aramco’s liquids-to-chemicals strategy. The investment decision is subject to customary closing
conditions and approvals.
In October, Aramco established a $1.5 billion Sustainability Fund to invest in technology needed
to support a stable and inclusive energy transition. The fund plans to invest in technologies that
support the Company’s announced Scope 1 and Scope 2 net-zero 2050 ambition in its wholly-
owned operational assets, as well as development of new lower-carbon fuels.
In November, a joint development agreement between Aramco and the Ministry of Energy was
signed to construct one of the largest planned carbon capture and storage hubs in the world in
Jubail, Saudi Arabia, with a storage capacity of up to 9 million tons of carbon dioxide a year by
2027.
---
Aramco will discuss its full-year financial results for 2022 in an audio webcast on March 13,
2023 at 3.30pm Riyadh / 12.30pm London / 8.30am New York. The webcast will be available at
www.aramco.com/investors.
*Please refer to www.aramco.com/investors for reconciliation of non-IFRS measures
Contact Information
International Media Relations: international.media@aramco.com
Investor Relations: investor.relations@aramco.com
Aramco
Disclaimer
The press release contains forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements relating to historical or current facts included in the press release are forward-looking statements. Forward-
looking statements give the Company’s current expectations and projections relating to its capital expenditures and investments, major projects, upstream and downstream performance, including
relative to peers. These statements may include, without limitation, any statements preceded by, followed by or including words such as “target,” “believe,” “expect,” “aim,” “intend,” “may,” “anticipate,”
“estimate,” “plan,” “project,” “can have,” “likely,” “should,” “could,” and other words and terms of similar meaning or the negative thereof. Such forward looking statements involve known and
unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors beyond the Company’s control that could cause the Company’s actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from the
expected results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by such forward looking statements, including the following factors: international crude oil supply and demand and the price at
which it sells crude oil; the impact of COVID-19 on business and economic conditions and on supply and demand for crude oil, gas and refined and petrochemical products; competitive pressure; climate
change concerns and impacts; terrorism and armed conflict; adverse economic or political developments in Asia; operational risks and hazards in the oil and gas, refining and petrochemicals industries;
any significant deviation or changes in existing economic and operating conditions that could affect the estimated quantity and value of the Company’s proved reserves; losses from risks related to
insufficient insurance; the Company’s ability to deliver on current and future projects; comparability amongst periods; the Company’s ability to realize benefits from recent and future acquisitions,
including with respect to SABIC; risks related to operating in several countries; the Company’s dependence on its senior management and key personnel; the reliability and security of the Company’s IT
systems; litigation to which the Company is or may be subject; risks related to oil, gas, environmental, health and safety and other regulations that impact the industries in which the Company
operates; risks related to international operations, including sanctions and trade restrictions, anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and other laws and regulations; risks stemming from requirements to
obtain, maintain, and renew governmental licenses, permits, and approvals; risks stemming from existing and potential laws, regulations, and other requirements or expectations relating to
environmental protection, health and safety laws and regulations, and sale and use of chemicals and plastics; potential changes in equalization compensation received in connection with domestic sales
of hydrocarbons; potential impact on tax rates if the Company does not separate its downstream business in a timeframe set by the Government of Saudi Arabia; risks related to Government-directed
projects and other Government requirements, including those related to Government-set maximum level of crude oil production and target MSC; as well as the importance of the hydrocarbon industry
to the Government; political and social instability and unrest and actual or potential armed conflicts in the regions in which the Company operates and other areas; risks arising should the Government
eliminate or change the pegging of SAR to the U.S. dollar; and other risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from the forward looking statements in this press release, as set forth
in the Company’s latest periodic reports filed with the Saudi Stock Exchange. For additional information on the potential risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from the results
predicted please see the Company’s latest periodic reports filed with the Saudi Stock Exchange. Such forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions regarding the Company’s present
and future business strategies and the environment in which it will operate in the future. The information contained in the press release, including but not limited to forward-looking statements, applies
only as of the date of this press release and is not intended to give any assurances as to future results. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to disseminate any updates or
revisions to the press release, including any financial data or forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless required by applicable law or
regulation. No person should construe the press release as financial, tax or investment advice. Undue reliance should not be placed on the forward‐looking statements.