SOURCE: Saudi Aramco — Press Release 2023 FY
TYPE: Press Release
URL: https://www.aramco.com/-/media/publications/corporate-reports/reports-and-presentations/2023/fy/saudi-aramco-fy-2023-results-press-release-english.pdf
============================================================

[Page 1]
Press Release
Aramco announces full-year 2023 results
Second-highest ever net income, total dividends paid rises 30% year-on-year
• Second highest ever net income of $121.3 billion (2022: $161.1 billion)
• Total dividends of $97.8 billion paid in 2023, up 30% from 2022
• Board declares 4% YoY increase in base dividend for Q4 2023 to reach $20.3 billion, to be
paid in the first quarter of 2024, and 9% increase in performance-linked dividend
distribution of $10.8 billion, compared to two payments of $9.9 billion in H2 2023
• Total full year performance-linked dividend to be paid in 2024 is expected to be $43.1
billion, including the $10.8 billion in Q1, based on the previously announced mechanism
and subject to Board approval
• Cash flow from operating activities: $143.4 billion (2022: $186.2 billion)
• Free cash flow*: $101.2 billion (2022: $148.5 billion)
• Gearing ratio*: -6.3% as at December 31, 2023 (end of 2022: -7.9%)
• Increased capital investments of $49.7 billion, including $42.2 billion organic capex (2022:
$38.8 billion, including $37.6 billion organic capex)
• Q4 2023 net income in line with analyst consensus, despite taking certain non-cash
charges of c.$1.5 billion
• Gas production growth target raised to more than 60% by 2030, against 2021 baseline
• First international investment in LNG supports strategic portfolio expansion and value
creation
• Downstream expansion continues to add value as footprint grows in the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia and key global markets
• Renewables focus reflected in shareholders’ agreement to participate in developing two
solar projects, with an anticipated combined capacity of 2.66 GW
DHAHRAN, Saudi Arabia, March 10, 2024 – The Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco” or “the
Company”) today announced its full-year 2023 financial results, reporting a net income of $121.3
billion, its second-highest ever net income.
The results, underpinned by Aramco’s unique operational flexibility, reliability and low-cost
production base, reflect the Company’s ongoing commitment to creating value for its
shareholders.
Saudi Aramco: Public
[Page 2]
Amin H. Nasser, Aramco President & CEO, said:
“In 2023 we achieved our second-highest ever net income. Our resilience and agility contributed
to healthy cash flows and high levels of profitability, despite a backdrop of economic headwinds.
We also delivered for our shareholders with a 30% year-on-year increase in total dividends paid
in 2023.
“Our capital expenditures increased in line with guidance as we seek to create and capture
additional value from our operations, positioning the Company for a future in which we believe
oil and gas will be a key part of the global energy mix for many decades to come, alongside new
energy solutions.
“The recent directive from the government to maintain our Maximum Sustainable Capacity at 12
million barrels per day provides increased flexibility, as well as an opportunity to focus on
increasing gas production and growing our liquids-to-chemicals business. At the same time, we
continue to make progress on several strategic crude oil increments which will contribute to our
reliability, operational flexibility and ability to seize market opportunities.
“In parallel, announcements of our first international investment in LNG, the growth of our
international retail operations, continued progress in major overseas refining and chemical
projects, and our emerging new energies portfolio all serve to highlight our ability to capitalize
on new market opportunities and advance our strategic objectives.”
Financial Highlights
Aramco’s net income was $121.3 billion in 2023, compared to $161.1 billion in 2022, representing
Aramco’s second highest ever net income. The year-on-year decrease can be attributed to lower
crude oil prices and volumes sold, as well as reduced refining and chemicals margins, partially
offset by a decrease in production royalties during the year and lower income taxes and zakat.
Free cash flow* reached $101.2 billion in 2023, compared to $148.5 billion in 2022. Aramco’s
balance sheet remains strong and its gearing ratio* at the end of 2023 was -6.3%, compared to
-7.9% at the end of 2022.
Total dividends of $97.8 billion were paid in 2023, up 30% from 2022. Aramco declared a base
dividend of $20.3 billion for the fourth quarter, to be paid in Q1 2024. In addition, the Board has
approved the third distribution of performance-linked dividends in the amount of $10.8 billion.
In August 2023, the Company announced its intention to calculate the first performance-linked
dividends based on the combined full-year results of 2022 and 2023, to be distributed over six
quarters starting from the third quarter of 2023. The full year performance-linked dividend to be
paid in 2024 is expected to be $43.1 billion, including the $10.8 billion in Q1, based on the
previously announced mechanism and subject to Board approval.
Saudi Aramco: Public
[Page 3]
Capital investments in 2023 reached $49.7 billion, including $42.2 billion organic capex. This
represents a 28% increase from capital investments of $38.8 billion in 2022, including $37.6
billion organic capex. Aramco expects 2024 capital investments to be approximately $48 to $58
billion, growing until around the middle of the decade. The directive to maintain Maximum
Sustainable Capacity at 12 million barrels per day, mainly from deferral of projects not yet
commissioned and reductions in infill drilling, is expected to reduce capital investment by
approximately $40 billion between 2024 and 2028.
Operational Highlights
In 2023, Aramco’s average hydrocarbon production was 12.8 million barrels of oil equivalent per
day (mmboed), including 10.7 million barrels per day (mmbpd) of total liquids.
Aramco continued its strong track record of supply reliability, by delivering crude oil and other
products with 99.8% reliability in 2023.
Progress continues on the Company’s Marjan, Berri, Dammam and Zuluf crude increment
projects, which are intended to enhance Aramco’s reliability, operational flexibility and ability to
capture value from higher global demand, while contributing to its capability to maintain a
Maximum Sustainable Capacity of 12.0 mmbpd.
The Company’s gas projects are also advancing with the aim of increasing gas production by more
than 60% by 2030, compared to 2021 levels. These projects include the Hawiyah Unayzah Gas
Reservoir Storage, where injection activities have commenced with the goal of providing up to
two billion standard cubic feet per day (bscfd) for reintroduction into the master gas system;
completion of the Hawiyah Gas Plant expansion, increasing the plant’s raw gas processing
capacity by 800 million standard cubic feet per day (mmscfd), including approximately 750
mmscfd of sales gas capacity; and production of the first unconventional tight gas from the South
Ghawar operational area.
The Company announced its first international investment in LNG, following the signing of
definitive agreements to acquire a strategic minority stake in MidOcean Energy. Completion of
the transaction is subject to closing conditions, which include regulatory approvals.
In line with Aramco’s strategic goal to advance its liquids-to-chemicals strategy, the Company
acquired a 10% interest in Rongsheng Petrochemical Company Limited (Rongsheng
Petrochemical).
Under a long-term sales agreement, Aramco has the right to supply 480,000 barrels per day
(mbpd) of crude oil to Rongsheng Petrochemical’s affiliate, Zhejiang Petroleum and Chemical
Company Limited (ZPC), which operates one of the largest integrated refining and chemicals
complex in China.
Saudi Aramco: Public
[Page 4]
Complementing Aramco’s premium-branded lubricant products, the Company completed its
acquisition of Valvoline Inc.’s global products business. The acquisition is expected to optimize
Aramco’s global base oils production capabilities, and expand its R&D activities and partnerships
with original equipment manufacturers.
Aramco and TotalEnergies awarded engineering, procurement, and construction contracts for
the $11.0 billion Amiral complex, a future world-scale petrochemicals facility expansion at
SATORP refinery in Jubail, Saudi Arabia. The new complex aims to house one of the largest mixed-
load steam crackers in the region, with a capacity to produce 1.65 million tons per annum of
ethylene and other industrial gases. It is expected to enable SATORP to advance Aramco’s liquids-
to-chemicals strategy with expected commercial operations in 2027.
Supporting the expansion of its global retail operations, Aramco has completed the purchase of
a 100% equity stake in the Chilean retailer Esmax Distribución SpA (Esmax), one of the leading
diversified downstream fuels and lubricants retailers in Chile, from Southern Cross Group,
representing the Company’s first downstream retail investment in South America. Aramco also
signed definitive agreements to acquire a 40% equity stake in Gas & Oil Pakistan Limited (GO), a
diversified downstream fuels, lubricants and convenience stores operator in Pakistan, subject to
customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals.
Advancing its role in renewables development, and in line with its aim to capitalize on the
Kingdom’s solar resources, Aramco entered into a shareholders’ agreement with the Public
Investment Fund (PIF) and ACWA Power for the development of the Al Shuaibah 1 and Al
Shuaibah 2 photovoltaic solar projects in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. With an expected
combined capacity of 2.66 GW, commercial operations are expected to commence in 2025.
As part of Aramco’s corporate development activities, and to enhance its supply chain ecosystem,
the Company also signed a shareholders’ agreement with Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. Ltd. (Boasteel)
and PIF to establish a world-class steel plate manufacturing complex in the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia, as well as a shareholders’ agreement with DHL for a new Procurement and Logistics Hub.
Yanbu Refinery became the fourth Aramco facility to be added to the World Economic Forum
Global Lighthouse Network, having been recognized for its pioneering deployment of cutting-
edge technologies to deliver a range of operational, commercial and environmental benefits. This
reflects Aramco’s continued focus on the development and deployment of state-of-the-art
Fourth Industrial Revolution technologies, which enhance operations.
---
Aramco will discuss its full-year financial results for 2023 in an audio webcast on March 11,
2024 at 3.30pm Riyadh / 12.30pm London / 8.30am New York. To register for the webcast, visit
www.aramco.com/investors.
*Please refer to www.aramco.com/investors for reconciliation of non-IFRS measures.
Saudi Aramco: Public
[Page 5]
Aramco Contact Information
Media Relations: media.inquiries@aramco.com
Investor Relations: investor.relations@aramco.com
@aramco
About Aramco
Aramco is a global integrated energy and chemicals company. We are driven by our core belief
that energy is opportunity. From producing approximately one in every eight barrels of the
world’s oil supply to developing new energy technologies, our global team is dedicated to
creating impact in all that we do. We focus on making our resources more dependable, more
sustainable and more useful. This helps promote stability and long-term growth around the
world. www.aramco.com
Disclaimer
The press release contains forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements relating to historical or current facts included in the press release are
forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements give the Company’s current expectations and projections relating to its capital expenditures and
investments, major projects, upstream and downstream performance, including relative to peers. These statements may include, without limitation, any statements
preceded by, followed by or including words such as “target,” “believe,” “expect,” “aim,” “intend,” “may,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “plan,” “project,” “can have,”
“likely,” “should,” “could,” and other words and terms of similar meaning or the negative thereof. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks,
uncertainties and other important factors beyond the Company’s control that could cause the Company’s actual results, performance or achievements to be materially
different from the expected results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, including the following factors: global
supply, demand and price fluctuations of oil, gas and petrochemicals; global economic conditions; competition in the industries in which Saudi Aramco operates;
climate change concerns, weather conditions and related impacts on the global demand for hydrocarbons and hydrocarbon-based products; risks related to Saudi
Aramco’s ability to successfully meet its ESG targets, including its failure to fully meet its GHG emissions reduction targets by 2050; conditions affecting the
transportation of products; operational risk and hazards common in the oil and gas, refining and petrochemicals industries; the cyclical nature of the oil and gas,
refining and petrochemicals industries; political and social instability and unrest and actual or potential armed conflicts in the MENA region and other areas; natural
disasters and public health pandemics or epidemics; the management of Saudi Aramco’s growth; the management of the Company’s subsidiaries, joint operations,
joint ventures, associates and entities in which it holds a minority interest; Saudi Aramco’s exposure to inflation, interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk; risks
related to operating in a regulated industry and changes to oil, gas, environmental or other regulations that impact the industries in which Saudi Aramco operates;
legal proceedings, international trade matters, and other disputes or agreements; and other risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from the
forward-looking statements in this press release, as set forth in the Company’s latest periodic reports filed with the Saudi Stock Exchange. For additional information
on the potential risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from the results predicted please see the Company’s latest periodic reports filed with
the Saudi Stock Exchange. Such forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions regarding the Company’s present and future business strategies and
the environment in which it will operate in the future. The information contained in the press release, including but not limited to forward-looking statements, applies
only as of the date of this press release and is not intended to give any assurances as to future results. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking
to disseminate any updates or revisions to the press release, including any financial data or forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information,
future events or otherwise, unless required by applicable law or regulation. No person should construe the press release as financial,tax or investment advice. Undue
reliance should not be placed on the forward-looking statements.
Saudi Aramco: Public