SOURCE: Saudi Aramco — Press Release 2021 Q3
TYPE: Press Release
URL: https://www.aramco.com/-/media/publications/corporate-reports/reports-and-presentations/2021/q3/saudi-aramco-q3-2021-results-press-release-english.pdf
============================================================

[Page 1]
Press Release
Aramco announces third quarter 2021 results
Q3 net income rises 158% and free cash flow up by 131% YoY as Company capitalizes on market recovery
• Net income: $30.4 billion
• Cash flow from operating activities: $36.3 billion
• Free cash flow*: $28.7 billion
• Gearing ratio*: 17.2% on September 30, 2021 compared to 23% on December 31, 2020
• Q2 dividend of $18.8 billion paid in the third quarter; Q3 dividend of $18.8 billion to be
paid in the fourth quarter
Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, October 31, 2021 – The Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco” or “the
Company”) today announced its third quarter financial results, recording a 158% year-on-year
(YoY) increase in net income to $30.4 billion and declaring a dividend of $18.8 billion to be paid
in the fourth quarter.
The increase in net income was primarily the result of higher crude oil prices and volumes sold
and stronger refining and chemicals margins in Q3, which were underpinned by rebounding
global energy demand and increased economic activity in key markets.
Commenting on the results, Aramco President & CEO Amin H. Nasser, said:
“Our exceptional third quarter performance was a result of increased economic activity in key
markets and a rebound in energy demand, as well as our unique low-cost position, our financial
discipline and our proven ability to reliably deliver essential energy and chemical products to our
customers.
“Some headwinds still exist for the global economy, partly due to supply chain bottlenecks, but
we are optimistic that energy demand will remain healthy for the foreseeable future.
“Looking ahead, we are maintaining our strategy to invest for the long term, and we will build on
our track record of low-cost and low-carbon intensity performance to advance our recently
announced ambition to achieve net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions across
our wholly-owned operated assets by 2050.”
[Page 2]
Financial Highlights
Aramco’s net income was $30.4 billion in the third quarter, compared to $11.8 billion in Q3 2020.
This 158% YoY increase in net income principally reflects the impact of higher crude oil prices and
volumes sold and stronger refining and chemicals margins.
Free cash flow* was $28.7 billion in the third quarter, compared to $12.4 billion for the same
period in 2020, and the company again delivered for its shareholders by declaring a dividend of
$18.8 billion for Q3.
ROACE*, calculated on a 12-month rolling basis, was 20.6% for the period ending September 30,
2021, compared to 14.8% for the same period in 2020, principally reflecting an increase in net
income.
The Company’s gearing ratio* was 17.2% on September 30, 2021, when compared with 23% on
December 31, 2020. The decrease was mainly due to higher cash and cash equivalents, driven by
higher operating cash flows resulting from stronger crude oil prices, improved refining and
chemicals margins, the consolidation of SABIC’s results and cash proceeds in relation to Aramco’s
stabilized crude oil pipelines transaction that completed in the second quarter of 2021.
Aramco continues to invest for the future with capital expenditure of $7.6 billion in the third
quarter, representing a 19% increase, compared with the same period in 2020. This increase was
primarily due to ongoing crude oil increment and other development projects. Aramco maintains
a flexible approach to capital allocation and continues to expect 2021 capital expenditure to be
approximately $35 billion.
Operational Highlights
Aramco continued its strong track record of reliable supply, achieving 99.7% reliability in the
delivery of crude oil and other products in the third quarter of 2021.
The Company also demonstrated its consistent Upstream performance, with total hydrocarbon
production of 12.9 million barrels per day of oil equivalent in the third quarter of 2021, including
average crude oil production of 9.5 million barrels per day (bpd). Upstream continues to execute
its growth plans to promote long-term productivity of Saudi Arabia’s reservoirs and is proceeding
with implementing the Government’s directive to increase its crude oil maximum sustainable
capacity from 12 million bpd to 13 million bpd.
During the third quarter, the Hawiyah Gas Plant expansion project reached advanced stages of
construction. The project is part of the Haradh Gas increment program and is expected to be
onstream in 2022.
On August 15, the financial close for the 1.5 GW Sudair Solar PV plant, in which Aramco holds a
30% stake through its wholly-owned subsidiary Saudi Aramco Power Company (SAPCO), was
announced. The project, in partnership with ACWA Power and Water & Electricity Holding Co.
(Badeel), a company owned by the Public Investment Fund (PIF), will be one of the largest solar
plants in the region.
[Page 3]
Aramco’s investment marks its first participation in PIF’s renewable energy program, reflecting
the company’s efforts to advance sustainable energy solutions. The first phase of the project is
expected to begin producing electricity during the second half of 2022.
On September 7, Aramco announced a major expansion of its industrial investment program,
Aramco Namaat, with the signing of 22 new Memoranda of Understanding and one joint venture
agreement. The program is focused on capacity building in four key sectors: sustainability,
technology, industrial and energy services, and advanced materials.
The Namaat program aims to ensure greater reliability of energy supply and effectively localize
the industrial supply chain, while targeting new opportunities to achieve carbon footprint
reduction and implement circular carbon economy concepts. Namaat complements the
Company’s flagship In-Kingdom Total Value Add (iktva) localization program, as well as the
government’s Shareek program.
On September 20, the Oil & Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI), of which Aramco is a member,
announced its aim to reach net-zero emissions from operations under OGCI members’ control,
and also leverage their influence to achieve the same in non-operated assets, within the
timeframe set by the Paris Agreement. Following the OGCI announcement, Aramco on October
23 stated its own ambition to achieve net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions
across its wholly-owned operated assets by 2050.
On September 24, Aramco’s Abqaiq oil processing facility, the largest oil processing plant in the
world, became the Company’s third facility to be added to the World Economic Forum’s Global
Lighthouse Network, which recognizes industrial sites that have successfully adopted and scaled
up cutting-edge technologies of the Fourth Industrial Revolution.
On September 27, Jazan Integrated Gasification and Power Company (JIGPC), a joint venture
consisting of Saudi Aramco Power Company (SAPCO), Air Products, ACWA Power and Air Products
Qudra signed agreements for the $12 billion acquisition and financing of the Jazan Integrated
Gasification Combined-Cycle (IGCC) power plant, an Air Separation Unit and certain ancillary
assets from Aramco located in Jazan Economic City. The joint venture aims to enhance the overall
value of the Jazan refinery and the IGCC power plant, aiding in transforming the Jazan Province
and positioning it for additional foreign investment and private sector involvement.
---
*Please refer to www.aramco.com/investors for reconciliation of non-IFRS measures
Contact Information
International Media Relations: international.media@aramco.com
Investor Relations: investor.relations@aramco.com
Aramco
[Page 4]
About Aramco
Aramco is a global integrated energy and chemicals company. We are driven by the core belief
that energy is opportunity. From producing approximately one in every eight barrels of the
world’s oil supply to developing new energy technologies, our global team is dedicated to
creating impact in all that we do. We focus on making our resources more dependable, more
sustainable and more useful. This helps promote stability and long-term growth around the
world. www.aramco.com
Disclaimer
The press release contains forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements relating to historical or current facts
included in the press release are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements give the Company’s current expectations
and projections relating to its capital expenditures and investments, major projects, upstream and downstream performance, including
relative to peers. These statements may include, without limitation, any statements preceded by, followed by or including words such
as “target,” “believe,” “expect,” “aim,” “intend,” “may,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “plan,” “project,” ,” “can have,” “likely,” “should,” “could,”
“ambition” and other words and terms of similar meaning or the negative thereof. Such forward looking statements involve known and
unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors beyond the Company’s control that could cause the Company’s actual results,
performance or achievements to be materially different from the expected results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied
by such forward looking statements, including the following factors: international crude oil supply and demand and the price at which
it sells crude oil; the impact of COVID-19 on business and economic conditions and on supply and demand for crude oil, gas and
refined and petrochemical products; risks associated with the Company’s ability to develop successful alternative energy solutions,
technologies and programs, and its ability to meet its net zero ambitions and other sustainability goals; the ability of Oil and Gas
Climate Initiative (OGCI) members, including the Company, to achieve its three strategic pillars, including aiming to reach net zero
emissions from members’ operations under their control and achieving other announced goals; competitive pressure; climate change
concerns and impacts; terrorism and armed conflict; adverse economic or political developments in Asia; operational risks and
hazards in the oil and gas, refining and petrochemicals industries; any significant deviation or changes in existing economic and
operating conditions that could affect the estimated quantity and value of the Company’s proved reserves; losses from risks related
to insufficient insurance; the Company’s ability to deliver on current and future projects; comparability amongst periods; the Company’s
ability to realize benefits from recent and future acquisitions, including with respect to SABIC; risks related to operating in several
countries; the Company’s dependence on its senior management and key personnel; the reliability and security of the Company’s IT
systems; litigation to which the Company is or may be subject; risks related to oil, gas, environmental, health and safety and other
regulations that impact the industries in which the Company operates; risks related to international operations, including sanctions
and trade restrictions, anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and other laws and regulations; risks stemming from requirements to
obtain, maintain, and renew governmental licenses, permits, and approvals; risks stemming from existing and potential laws,
regulations, and other requirements or expectations relating to environmental protection, health and safety laws and regulations, and
sale and use of chemicals and plastics; potential changes in equalization compensation received in connection with domestic sales
of hydrocarbons; potential impact on tax rates if the Company does not separate its downstream business in a timeframe set by the
Government of Saudi Arabia; risks related to Government-directed projects and other Government requirements, including those
related to Government-set maximum level of crude oil production and target MSC; as well as the importance of the hydrocarbon
industry to the Government; political and social instability and unrest and actual or potential armed conflicts in the regions in which
the Company operates and other areas; risks arising should the Government eliminate or change the pegging of SAR to the U.S.
dollar; and other risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from the forward looking statements in this press
release, as set forth in the Company’s latest periodic reports filed with the Tadawul. For additional information on the potential risks
and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from the results predicted please see the Company’s latest periodic reports
filed with the Tadawul. Such forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions regarding the Company’s present and
future business strategies and the environment in which it will operate in the future.
The information contained in the press release, including but not limited to forward-looking statements, applies only as of the date of
this press release and is not intended to give any assurances as to future results. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation
or undertaking to disseminate any updates or revisions to the press release, including any financial data or forward-looking statements,
whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless required by applicable law or regulation. No person should
construe the press release as financial, tax or investment advice. Undue reliance should not be placed on the forward‐looking
statements.