SOURCE: Saudi Aramco — Press Release 2020 Q2 H1
TYPE: Press Release
URL: https://www.aramco.com/-/media/publications/corporate-reports/reports-and-presentations/2020/q2---h1/saudi-aramco-q2-2020-press-release-english.pdf
============================================================

[Page 1]
Press Release
Aramco announces second quarter and half-year 2020 results
Continued progress on strategy and commitment to dividend enabled by resilience and financial prudence
• Net income: $6.6 billion (Q2) / $23.2 billion (H1)
• Cash flow from operating activities: $12.3 billion (Q2) / $34.8 billion (H1)
• Free cash flow*: $6.1 billion (Q2) / $21.1 billion (H1)
• Q1 dividend of $18.75 billion paid in the second quarter; Q2 dividends of $18.75 billion to
be paid in the third quarter
• Completion of SABIC transaction is a milestone for Downstream growth strategy
Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, August 9, 2020 – The Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco” or “the
Company”) today announced its results for the second quarter and first half of 2020, highlighting
the Company’s financial and operational resilience, and commitment to shareholders despite
challenging market conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.
Commenting on the results, Aramco President & CEO Amin H. Nasser, said:
“Despite COVID-19 bringing the world to a standstill, Aramco kept going. We have proven our
financial resilience and operational reliability, setting a record in our business operations, while
at the same time taking steps to ensure the health and safety of our people.
“Strong headwinds from reduced demand and lower oil prices are reflected in our second quarter
results. Yet we delivered solid earnings because of our low production costs, unique scale, agile
workforce, and unrivalled financial and operational strength. This helped us deliver on our plan
to maintain a second quarter dividend of $18.75 billion to be paid in the third quarter.
“We will continue to pursue our long-term growth and diversification strategy to capture
unrealized and additional value from every hydrocarbon molecule we produce – driving global
commerce and enhancing people’s lives. The completion of our historic acquisition of a 70% stake
in SABIC is yet more evidence of that forward momentum and a testament to our healthy
financial position.
[Page 2]
“We are seeing a partial recovery in the energy market as countries around the world take steps
to ease restrictions and reboot their economies. Meanwhile, we continue to place people’s safety
first and have adapted to the new normal, implementing wide-ranging precautions to limit the
spread of COVID-19 wherever we operate.
“We are determined to emerge from the pandemic stronger and will continue making progress
on our long-term strategic journey, through ongoing investments in our business – which has one
of the lowest upstream carbon footprints in the world.”
Financial Highlights
Despite continued global economic disruption and challenges facing the energy sector, Aramco
continued to deliver on its commitment to shareholders by declaring a dividend of $18.75 billion
for the second quarter, compared to $13.4 billion for the second quarter of 2019.
Aramco navigated challenging market conditions to record net income of $6.6 billion for the
second quarter and $23.2 billion for the first half of 2020, respectively, compared to $24.7 billion
and $46.9 billion in the corresponding periods of 2019. This demonstrates Aramco’s agility,
strength and resilience across market cycles.
Free cash flow* was $6.1 billion in the second quarter and $21.1 billion for the first half of 2020,
respectively, compared to $20.6 billion and $38.0 billion for the same periods in 2019.
The gearing ratio* was 20.1% at the end of June, mainly reflecting deferred consideration for the
Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (SABIC) acquisition and the consolidation of SABIC’s net debt
onto Aramco’s balance sheet.
Capital expenditure was $6.2 billion in the second quarter and $13.6 billion for the first half of
2020. Aramco continues to implement its capital spending optimization and efficiency program,
and expects capital expenditure to be at the lower end of the $25 billion to $30 billion range for
2020.
Operational Highlights
The COVID-19 pandemic has spread rapidly throughout the world, resulting in substantial
reductions in consumer and business activity and significantly reduced demand for crude oil,
natural gas and petroleum products.
Under these challenging market conditions, Aramco continued its strong track record of reliable
supply, achieving 99.8% reliability in the delivery of crude oil and other products in the second
quarter of 2020.
The Company demonstrated reliable upstream performance with total hydrocarbon production
of 12.7 million barrels per day of oil equivalent in the second quarter of 2020.
Aramco achieved a historic highest single day crude oil production of 12.1 million barrels on April
2, 2020.
[Page 3]
To meet future global and domestic energy demand, Aramco continues to expand its gas
business. In line with this strategy, the Fadhili Gas Plant reached its full production capacity of
2.5 billion standard cubic feet per day during the second quarter, after successfully completing
its commissioning activities.
The Downstream business continues to deliver on its long-term strategy of strategic integration
and diversification.
In June 2020, Aramco successfully completed the acquisition of a 70% stake in SABIC, for $69.1
billion. SABIC is a world-class, diversified petrochemicals company with complementary
chemicals capabilities. The acquisition enhances Aramco’s existing Downstream portfolio,
accelerates its petrochemicals growth, increases existing chemicals volumes and expands its
international reach.
In July 2020, the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI) member companies announced a target to
reduce the average carbon intensity of their aggregated upstream oil and gas operations to
between 20 kg and 21 kg of CO2 equivalent per barrel of oil equivalent (CO2e/boe) by 2025, from
a collective baseline of 23 kg CO2e/boe in 2017. Aramco, an OGCI member, achieved an upstream
carbon intensity of 10.4 kg CO2e/boe in 2019. The Company’s Greenhouse Gas emissions were
verified by an independent third party.
COVID-19 Update
Throughout the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, Aramco has remained committed to the safety of
its people, establishing protocols to monitor and limit the spread of COVID-19.
The Company has helped its people and communities around the world confront the virus
through initiatives such as employee donation programs, medical support services and monetary
contributions. Working with communities in each of its geographies, Aramco and its subsidiaries
have provided much-needed equipment to hospitals, such as ventilators, high-efficiency air
purifiers and personal protective equipment for frontline healthcare professionals.
Aramco has extended financial support to aid agencies around the world to help combat the
spread of COVID-19. Aramco Overseas Company and Aramco’s regional affiliates have made
donations of $6.7 million to organizations in the United States, Asia and Europe to support
emergency workers and help protect vulnerable groups. This includes financial support to
multiple food banks and to advance trials of treatments for COVID-19 patients.
In Saudi Arabia, Aramco has contributed over $50 million to the Health Endowment Fund of the
Ministry of Health to support efforts to combat COVID-19. It also matched an amount raised by
Aramco employees through staff donations, with a total of $3.5 million going towards the
distribution of welfare supplies to more than 20,000 deserving households, including orphans
and widows, across the Kingdom.
Despite the virus’s impact on demand, the Company continues to place great importance on
maintaining its industry-leading capabilities and operations, backed by its world-class supply
chain, to ensure its customers’ requirements are met.
[Page 4]
Additional information on Aramco’s support efforts and response to COVID-19 can be found in
more detail on a dedicated webpage here and an official press release here.
*Please refer to www.aramco.com/investors for reconciliation of non-IFRS measures
Aramco will discuss its half-year financial results for 2020 in a webcast on August 10, 2020 at
3.30pm KSA / 1.30pm BST / 8.30am EST. The webcast will be available at
www.aramco.com/investors.
Contact Information
International Media Relations: international.media@aramco.com
Investor Relations: investor.relations@aramco.com
Aramco
Disclaimer
The press release contains forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements relating to historical or current facts included in the press
release are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements give the Company’s current expectations and projections relating to its capital
expenditures and investments, major projects, upstream performance, including relative to peers, and growth in downstream and chemicals. These
statements may include, without limitation, any statements preceded by, followed by or including words such as “target,” “believe,” “expect,” “aim,”
“intend,” “may,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “plan,” “project,” “will,” “can have,” “likely,” “should,” “would,” “could”, “continue”, “forward” and other words and
terms of similar meaning or the negative thereof. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors
beyond the Company’s control that could cause the Company’s actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from the expected
results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, including the following factors: international crude oil
supply and demand and the prices at which Aramco sells crude oil; the impact of COVID-19 on business and economic conditions and on supply and
demand for crude oil, gas and refined and petrochemical products; adverse economic or political developments that could impact the Company’s results
of operations; competitive pressures faced by the Company; managing Aramco’s subsidiaries, joint operations, joint ventures, associates and entities in
which it holds a minority interest; any significant deviation or changes in existing economic and operating conditions that could affect the estimated
quantity and value of proved reserves; operational risks and hazards in the oil and gas, refining and petrochemicals industries; the cyclical nature of the
oil and gas, refining and petrochemical industries; weather conditions; political and social instability and unrest and actual or potential armed conflicts in
the regions in which Aramco operates and other areas; losses from risks related to insufficient insurance; the Company’s ability to deliver on current and
future projects; litigation that the Company is or may be subject to; the Company’s ability to realize benefits from recent and future acquisitions, including
with respect to SABIC; risks related to international operations, including sanctions and trade restrictions, anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and other
laws and regulations; risks related to oil, gas, environmental, health and safety and other regulations that impact the industries in which Aramco operates;
the Company’s dependence on its senior management and key personnel; management’s limited experience in managing a public company; the reliability
and security of the Company’s IT systems; climate change concerns and impacts; risks related to Government-directed projects and other Government
requirements, including those related to Government-set maximum level of crude oil production and target MSC; fluctuations in interest rates and foreign
exchange rates; and other risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from the forward looking statements in this press release, as
set forth in the Company’s latest periodic reports filed with the Tadawul. For additional information on the potential risks and uncertainties that could
cause actual results to differ from the results predicted please see the Company’s latest periodic reports filed with the Tadawul. Such forward-looking
statements are based on numerous assumptions regarding the Company’s present and future business strategies and the environment in which it will
operate in the future.
The information contained in the press release, including but not limited to forward-looking statements, applies only as of the date of this press release
and is not intended to give any assurances as to future results. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to disseminate any
updates or revisions to the press release, including any financial data or forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events
or otherwise, unless required by applicable law or regulation. No person should construe the press release as financial, tax or investment advice.
Undue reliance should not be placed on the forward-looking statements.